Okay, let's start and then hope everyone
will join. So yesterday we uh covered
the topics related to uh storefront
setting up websites uh theme for the
websites uh also went through customer
customer related entities and then at
the final end we were uh talking about
products what kind of attributes
families how to set up that what kind of
types of products we could have at uh
Orocommerce
Uh one thing that I was not able to
demonstrate you how so I was actually
demonstrated using
documentation how configurable uh
products uh could be added uh to uh to
the cart using uh different uh forms and
it was not working for me. Um I have
checked the reason and um I will
demonstrate briefly what was wrong in my
setup. So I had a um variance uh test
one and test two and uh those variants
were the were assigned were created with
the unit of quantity item. While when I
was creating configurable product, I
created configurable product with the
unit of quantity set here. uh yesterday
I had set unit of quantity and u because
of this uh unit of quantity not matching
on a configurable level uh configurable
product level and on a variance that's
why I was u able to see the default uh
form for the uh for adding products to
uh uh to the shopping list. So now I
have pix so both varants and uh
configurable has the same unit of
quantity item. And if I go to
configuration and uh change for instance
both popup
uh for the configurable for the both uh
product view and product listing page.
Now I should have pop matrix uh popup uh
for the configurable. So uh let me go to
the
I will first search for the
oops I need to log in.
Okay I have logged in.
Now while adding to shopping list uh I
have changing configuration my
preference to have on a product listing
u uh matrix uh form popup matrix form
for the configurable and now I do see
this form uh here in a popup while
trying to add products to the shopping
list and specifying some quantity for
black and white items I am adding them
to the shopping list and if I go to the
product details page uh same here
Previously we had those uh fields for
selecting uh what kind of variance we
would like to add. Right now there is no
select fields but I am adding it using
uh again popup and just quickly inline
matrix inline matrix save settings
uh refresh
and this is how inline matrix uh looks
like uh for configuration. So again um
need to pay attention that unit of
quantity fits on both variance and u
configurable product that they are the
same otherwise uh this form will be just
provided a default one but not the one
which is in configuration.
Okay.
So that's that was something that I
promised to uh check and u
and provide the reason and now let's
continue. But before we continue uh
maybe there were some questions related
to ask to the exercise that I prepared
uh uh the exercise was uh about customer
entities or maybe any other questions.
Uh
okay then let's start let's continue
with the uh with the day two and for day
two we have u
master catalog
and web catalog we'll see what's the
difference with it how to set them up uh
then we will switch to pricing how
pricing agent works what kind of of what
kind of components it um u it consists
of how prices are calculated depending
on different strategy and then uh at the
very end of the day two we will cover
also price related topics and these are
promotions and discounts.
Uh so let's uh start with the master
catalog.
Uh so we have products uh in our system
in a back office. Now the question is
how to categorize them and uh the way
products are categorized in orcommerce
is u using master catalog. So it
actually represents a tree of u uh
categories which contains of like a root
um some root u uh node uh and then some
uh sub subcategories. One second. Let me
admit
someone is joining. Uh and also uh yeah
the the root category and then some
subcategories and we this way we will
have some kind of tree with the parent
and child categories.
Uh each uh category uh of master uh
catalog. It has its own properties and
we can configure
uh different u settings related to uh
how uh
product option should look like what
kind of visibility of the uh category uh
to what uh customer customer groups or
websites uh expose this category or not
and also search engine optimization uh
options
and Master catalog could be used uh not
only for categorizing products
in in our back office but also for uh
using it as a uh source of the uh
navigation main navigation menu. Uh
master catalog is uh built using uh this
gadmo uh nested uh tree. So based on the
the screen extension um you may check
the documentation how
um how especially the nested uh tree uh
extension works but uh yeah it was uh
built aura uses it and on top uh
introduces its own logic and actually
the entity which is responsible for uh
storing categories of master catalog is
the uh this one which is listed here
category under or catalog bundle. So now
let's switch uh to the demonstration and
uh
okay yeah let's switch to the
demonstration.
So I will close these things
and uh so master catalog it is uh
located under products uh master catalog
in a back office. So uh there is an
ability to have only single uh master
catalog in the uh in back office uh and
each uh so we have a master catalog and
we have a list of categories. We have a
root category called all products and
then we have some subcategories like
lightning products, medical uh and and
other stuff.
So if we pick up one of the categories
uh we have like here lightning products
uh we see some uh general information of
the category it contains some
subcategories um uh architectural and
headlamps.
uh each category uh has u information
about uh like short description uh long
description of the uh category which
will be visible then in a storefront. By
the way, this also like uses those
localizable values that we were talking
about uh during product describing
product
uh product fields and product
attributes. So we can specify depending
on a uh localization
and uh so we are able to assign uh
while creating a category uh to assign
what kind of products uh belong to the
category they could be assigned uh here
from the category or uh whenever we are
creating a product uh uh using product
uh uh create page to here
we have the ability to to specify to
what uh category our newly created
product will be wrong. Or we can create
without assigning but then reassign uh
using
uh using this form or using this data
grid.
Uh we have uh some product uh uh options
um which are which will be common uh for
the whole category. So all products
within the uh same category will own
this uh this options. Uh these are
options related to inventory setup and
we will have a separate topic related to
inventory and we will go over uh this um
settings there.
This is related to CRM uh feature
tracking some activities. Uh let's not
focus on it. But the main thing I wanted
to demonstrate is uh that we are able to
set up uh visibility of the categories.
Um and we may see that we have the
ability to set up visibility depending
on the
uh on the
on different levels. uh and with u
ability to have
uh not only like levels here for the uh
customer for the customer group and for
the all uh but also uh depending on the
callbacks. So in this certain case we
have a uh uh lightning products
category. We can specify um to have it
to be it visible for some specific uh
for all uh to be to be specific either
visible or hidden or we can use as a
fallback and inherit visibility from the
parent category which is all products.
And uh or we can set visibility to be
provided uh the one that is in a global
configuration level. And similar to this
we let's pick up uh visibility per
customer. So we can define whether we
would like to
uh to limit access uh for the lightning
products for certain uh customer for
instance customer A. And here we also
have uh settings to to set the
visibility level or
visibility settings to be some kind of
explicit either hidden or visible
inherit from the parent category uh
inherit from the visible all or inherit
from the uh customer group uh visibility
which is this one. So we have like
several layers where this could be
configured and depending on uh the
requirements we can have this visibility
set up. And the last section uh here
while creating a categories for the
for the master catalog we have the
search engine optimization options
uh which uh allows us to provide
additional matter pills to the category
uh page and uh yeah for them
they would be then um scanned by their
indexation bots and u store it on um
that search engines.
Uh let's uh let's let's let's let's
demonstrate how it works. And let me
turn back to the slides. And the first
uh we have is um this uh category u
search engine optimization fields. Uh
okay. So, let's pick up one of the
headlamps
and check how it works.
Um, so I have uh headlamps. Let's go to
this category here in uh
[Music]
so it displays uh uh the products which
are assigned to the headlamps.
uh category.
So using the URL of the category, I was
able to navigate it. But we can navigate
it using navigation menu, we will check
uh how to set it up. Right now let's
focus on the category. We have a
category in a back office which has some
uh description
uh long description, short description
which is listed here. We have the title
of the category which is listed here. We
have um products which are assigned. We
have three products and um all three of
them are listed here. You can specify
the order in which you would like the uh
products to be presented on a category.
So changing the order. Let's put it 70.
I will update. So product industrial uh
uh should be at the very bottom of
category. So if I refresh the page uh
but need to have run consumers
for the
uh data to be uh put to uh index.
Okay. So I have changed the order and it
is reflected in the uh category. So
product industrial 310 was put to the
bottom as it's uh sort order is uh the
the highest one.
Um
so we have this search engine
optimization uh options and I have
specified some headlamps meta title
headlamps meta description and all of
them
are then populated to the page uh when
the page is uh prepared and rendered. So
if I open uh
console and search for the
uh for one of the values. So here are
those meta title, description and
keywords and all of them were uh
provided from the category u search uh
engine optimization options.
Okay, now let me demonstrate how
visibility works. Um
uh for example, let's pick up uh
company A um
company A and uh make uh for company A
uh this headlamps category hidden. Okay,
I have saved the changes.
The consumers have processed.
So now let me also pick up the product.
Uh now I am logged in as a company A
customer user. I have uh set this
category especially headlamps to be
hidden for the company A. Now if I
refresh a page uh I am not able to
access uh the category itself uh though
I am still located on the same category.
Uh if I search for the products uh see
results they are visible here in the
search results.
Okay.
But if I log out
uh from the category uh sorry from the
company A uh from the storefront
actually uh let me demonstrate.
Okay, I have logged out. Let me keep
pick up the same uh uh the same
category.
Uh I am still able to see it. So this is
still available. This category is still
available for me uh because I have uh
make I've made it uh hidden only for
company A uh users. Let me revert the
change.
Save the changes.
Okay.
Now, if I log in back to the
and go to this lightning products uh
headlamps, sorry,
lightning products headlamps, the
category uh became visible uh again.
Okay,
while talking about um search engine
optimization, those fields uh so I have
demonstrated that they are populated uh
on a category page when the cate
category page is u u is rendered. Um
this is uh actually the layout
definition which is responsible for
providing uh those blocks uh for the
meta fields meta title, description and
keywords and the uh content of those uh
of those fields you may find from which
uh source they are provided. Like here
we have category.
Uh yeah we are picking up current
category and providing it from
uh from there
from current category meta titles field
and preparing as meta information.
[Music]
those fields uh not only exposed to the
uh uh to the
page but also uh to the search index.
And if I search uh
by
uh this uh value, I should also be able
to to find uh
you see to find this category or
products of this category in a search
results. Um and the way it is done, it
is done using this uh um like listeners
which are responsible for indexing uh
data.
uh
and this is so actually the logic which
is uh responsible for adding that data
to the index data from uh category uh
search engine optimization fields.
And uh the last field uh the last thing
uh related to search engine optimization
is that uh uh actually not only category
uh field uh category entity uh has this
uh fields but also other pages uh uh or
other entities are extended with this u
u meta information fields. And here we
have like a list of them like product uh
also has um this u uh this fields. So
this is the migration which is
responsible for adding um uh search
engine optimization fields to the um the
entities and we do see that it is added
to the product to the landing page pages
uh web catalog and brand uh brand
entity. So let me go quickly. So if we
are pick up product as an example,
it will also have this
uh this fields uh
see our fields uh here they are uh for
the for the product. So
and so if you are loading product uh
details page or navigating to product
details page same as uh for the category
those fields are exposed or are visible
not visible but added to the HTML of the
of the page
and uh the bundle which is responsible
for those ser fields and adding them
expos goes into the index uh making them
searchable. Uh this is the one or bundle
which is used.
So as I mentioned uh we have on a
category
we have the ability to set up uh
visibility. So uh those uh
on which levels uh
category should be visible or hidden uh
depend from those levels could be
customer level, customer group level or
uh website level. uh it could be set up
on a category
as we've seen here and we were checking
u restricting um headlamps for the uh
company a um customer. Uh on the other
hand side we can uh limit visibility uh
depending on uh for the individual
product. Let's pick up uh one of the
products which uh
uh which are assigned to this category.
Let's pick up this one. Uh so
I will put it here.
Go here and meanwhile open uh storefront
to demonstrate how it works. Uh so we
have uh
this category
[Music]
lightning products headlamps. I will
open it in a storefront
and we have these three products. I am
logged in as uh
company A customer user. Uh all category
is u visible uh for my users. That's why
I see all the products. Now let's go to
the
product
uh the one that is at the very top this
one.
and uh change the visibility. Visibility
per individual product. It is uh managed
using uh product view page. Uh more
actions, manage visibility. This is
where it is hidden and uh it gives
similar settings which we've seen uh to
manage visibility to which we've seen on
a category page uh with the a single
exception that it also gives ability to
manage visibility depending on the
on the uh website. Uh so here we have
the same managing product visibility for
the customer
uh for the customer group
and uh also for the websites. So for the
default websites uh US, Australia and so
on. So all existing websites and similar
we've seen for the category there is
the settings to set up uh the visibility
to be explicit like here invisible or
use some fallbacks either inherit the
visibility from the category uh level or
from the global configuration and uh
moving uh down in those levels for the
customer groups. They could be
extended or they could be inherited
sorry from uh current uh product
visibility this one from the category uh
hidden or visible and c uh customer
visibilities uh they could inherit from
the uh customer group uh settings here.
Let me demonstrate again using this
company A. Uh now I will simply disable
this uh or make this product not visible
for the only single product not visible
for company A.
Okay. I will make it uh hidden. Uh save
the changes.
Okay. Uh the
product visibility change was uh uh
store it. Um though there is no ability
to check uh uh this settings in a
um on a product uh view page. Um
sometimes if um clients are managing
those visibilities
too frequently or have like some
specific to those visibility settings
they would like them to track. they add
a customization and present those uh
visibilities per product or per category
using some uh data grid some custom data
grid.
Yeah. But to check visibility
per product or category this could be
checked either going to specific product
or category and checking there or maybe
in the database as a as another option.
So okay we have made this product hidden
for customer
named company A. Uh so this is the one
which I am logged in. Uh so now if I
refresh the page
uh I am still on this head lightning
products headlamps. Um uh but uh now it
contains only two products cuz one of
the product the one we were just
configuring uh this um lumen uh headlamp
it was uh made him for the u company. So
if I uh sign out
if I sign out and return back to the
same
um category we were checking so product
still exists uh still visible uh because
it was not made as hidden. It was not
made hidden only for company A customer.
And by the way, it yeah, it is visible
in the search results as well.
Okay, let's continue.
Uh so talking about visibility so I have
demonstrated how that could be uh
configured on a category level depending
on different uh levels uh customer
customer group on a product level again
using customer group and website plus we
also have the visibility settings for
the products on a global configuration
level
uh system configuration.
Okay. the system configuration and we
have visibility
and actually it has only two options uh
to set uh by default uh what uh whether
products or categories should be visible
or hidden and this is the option from
which uh u
visibility settings inhabit on a
category level and on a product level.
So in some cases you may want to have
all products uh hidden by default uh or
all categories hidden by default but
then only expose uh those products which
uh for certain uh companies for certain
customer groups uh and set them visible
only specific ones. So it depends on
your
uh requirements
and whenever you are uh performing any
change uh on visibility
keep in mind that uh this visibility uh
requires then to be uh the change that
you have uh performed it needs to be uh
recalculated and so-called resolved uh
value or cached value stored in a in a
database depending on uh the val on um
on the settings on different values on
different levels customer group uh and
depending on the fallbacks uh which were
set up and uh here we have uh some uh
description
uh under which uh conditions um under
which actions operations this u
visibility settings uh uh recalculated
result value is prepared and how these
values are calculated depending on uh
fallbacks.
U so in some cases uh yeah there is
cases that u I have faced with that u
these levels that are already exist are
not enough and u clients were
introducing another level for for those
visibility settings but then need to
have them working uh while calculating
final visibility uh values per product
or per category.
and order visibility bundle. This is the
one you would need to pick up while
introducing any
customization in this direction.
So whenever we are
uh having a category uh with some
products assigned for those products to
be visible in a storefront and to be
provided as a search results or uh as a
uh category listing page. Those products
need to be put uh to the web search uh
index. Sometimes it is mentioned at the
storefront index or front end index and
it allows you so to to then to search uh
your uh products in more convenient uh
in more convenient way depending on um
some typos that might you might u u have
uh entered in a in a search field. uh so
the data that is stored uh in index it
is stored uh per uh the website that you
have so imagine if you have like seven
websites like Australia, Canadian or
German as we have in with the
demonstration that data it will means
that you will have a separate indexes
for each individual website and under
those website you will have a data uh
per each uh product which is uh which
belongs to the website and out of the
box we have u u entities um which are
exposed to the uh search index. This is
product entity and brand entity. Uh but
uh you can extend and uh expose other
entities if there is a need. Uh while uh
the change is performed uh the
indexation uh is uh processed u
asynchronously. So using uh message
consumer job. Uh this is the one we I've
just I was uh checking here. Uh so
anytime there is um a change in a
product or in a visibility settings
consumer uh reindex uh the product and
stores actual um uh values of the
product in the index and it could be
performed as in the background or if
there is a need there is a comments and
you can run them uh manually from a
common line interface and reindex either
some specific products uh or um using
uh depending on all the products for the
website or for the customer for the
customer group and the way uh how engine
uh collects the data to be put in the
index uh it uses event uh listener
uh approach. So whenever
um so this is the index data provider uh
so whenever we are uh having u like a
product entity u and manipulating with
uh performing some changes with it then
u we have like an event which is
dispatched uh uh with the entity uh data
there um if you would like to put
additional data to be indexed. Uh you
would need to uh introduce a listener
which will listen to this event and add
additional information you would like to
uh to be stored in the index and uh the
listener the example of listener which
uh uh actually one of the uh listeners
that's something you will be probably
using uh doing in a in your
customization.
Uh so yeah it simply listens to day one
uh which was demonstrated before and
using this method prepopulates maybe
prepares and then populates additional
data to the uh to the
uh
to the index. And we have uh for the
index to be aware of the fields uh
product fields uh in the index you would
need to configure them using website
search yaml uh file. In this example we
are configuring fields for the product
entity uh for per each uh website. So as
I mentioned we can this is a placeholder
uh which indicates the scope uh we are
storing our data. So uh in this case we
will be storing data uh product data per
the websites that we have in the system.
So we will have like um with seven
websites we'll have seven different oro
product one or product three uh two and
three and so on uh indexes and uh one
two three these are the website ids uh
we have in a system and here we have a
list of uh fields uh available for the
index um in the index like the name of
the fields and actually the the type of
the of the fields either this is a text
integer and so on. And we may also have
the uh not only the index uh with the
placeholder like here we have with the
placeholder uh website which indicates
for the scope uh website scope different
indexes but may also have a fields per
different uh scope of data like here all
text uh field we will have for all
localizations we have in in a system we
will also have uh a fields uh in index
uh for all localizations all text one
all text two uh and this will be a
placeholder uh which will substitute
localization ID with the real uh
localization ID we have in the system
and so yeah if we would need to add um
additional fields you would need to
configure in your customization not
configure but define in your con config
customization uh this YAML file, web
search YAML file and specify the name of
the
um of the fields and its time and then
using u this event and not event but
listening to the event u using the
example here uh populate u defined um u
newly configured field.
Okay. And the placeholders, yeah, they
are like the related to some specific
scopes uh which should be stored in the
index per localization. You can
introduce actually and usually this is
done introduce your own scopes per for
some field for instance depending on a
customer group or customer uh user or
customer.
Uh so you may have those fields like
separated
depending on this uh scopes using
placeholders and while indexing or
reindexing products we have this helper
comment as I mentioned and it could be
uh executed u uh using um like the same
process you can u
uh while running the command the same
process will be used to uh rein index
product. So you may use uh sh scheduled
option of this comment and in this way
the message will be put to the queue and
u u products u will be reindexed uh uh
in the background
and as a uh
data storage uh you could we could there
is an ability to use elastic search or
database uh but elastic search is used
for the enterprise edition only and of
course you will get more benefits of
using elastic search.
Um better to to choose this one.
Okay.
And those uh products which are um
listed in a storefront all of them uh so
they are provided actually uh from the
uh from the index and this is u how it
is configured. Um so we have a data
grid. Um uh let's pick up this one
product select uh grid. And here we see
that the source of the um of the grid is
u search which is
um elastic search for the enterprise
edition and uh search index. we are
picking up from the website uh index u
the the data and then quering for some
specific uh uh specific fields including
uh the uh placeholders. So substituting
those placeholders then with real values
uh of local currently enabled
localization or
currently
navigating uh customer customer
depending on the placeholder
uh and uh yeah there are a few ways uh
how new data could be added to index.
One way I have just described we need uh
to manually specify uh the
the field we would like to add um and
its type and then uh populate that field
uh using uh event listener. Another
thing if you are another way if you are
introducing product attributes uh
especially filtered product attributes
then it will mean that uh those u uh
values and those fields will be
automatically
exposed uh to the index and will be uh
uh added to the index and this is like
internal uh logic which handles that.
you would not need to uh perform any uh
additional uh customizations or you can
use like u an approach with mixing data
uh from different sources.
So having some uh specific field but uh
preparing the data depending on uh some
other records uh not records but uh so
here in this example uh we are having uh
a record which is uh a record of the
data grid. But then uh based on the
record uh defining a list of products uh
uh defining some uh shopping lists in
which this products to which these
products belong to and then adding uh
shopping lists uh this data to the index
to some u custom column. So in this way
we just exposing not the data that is
already exist in a product but also
doing some preparation and only then
exposing to the index for further usage
in your uh logic.
Uh we have a configuration uh which uh
gives the ability to position uh uh
search uh to position filters in a uh
product list and page. Let me quickly
um sidebar
filters
filters and sortters.
And let's go here.
Okay, here are the
the options I wanted to demonstrate. Uh
so using uh product uh uh listing page
uh we may have uh these filters expanded
or collapsed uh this one filters by
default and also position them here at
the top or change the position at the
sidebar. Uh so it was recent introduced
not so long ago maybe a year or u or two
this sidebar because it was just
frequently requested by our clients.
They would like to have it on the left
hand side and uh here you are. Uh so
instead of doing some customization it
is available out of the box here.
Okay. and uh a couple of uh best
practices or notes related to products
and also master uh catalog.
Uh so first uh if we are talking about
products uh um whenever you introducing
uh new product attributes uh remember
there are a certain um set of uh
options that could be assigned to the
attributes like whether attributes
should be searchable, filterable or
sortable. And uh whenever you are adding
uh an attribute, please uh think
beforehand uh whether this attributes
should be searchable, filterable or
sortable uh for the data to be
uh to be stored at the very beginning
because otherwise when you would like
them to change uh it will it might take
some time for reindexation and for
preparing the data. um uh and having in
elastic search. And whenever you are uh
creating attributes also you are
assigning them to some product families
and better to prepare families product
families uh with the product attributes
at the very beginning because u and have
this uh assigning setup because if you
do this uh later and would like to uh
change uh uh product family to a
different one um so it will have like a
different set them of attributes. It
will be like a real pain, a real
headache and uh um yeah very very
complex thing to to resolve uh
reassigning family a product to
different family.
Please do it beforehand like think and
design u products to
to the family properly because usually
uh clients are starting their setup with
some default family where all products
uh are included to this default default
family but then um in the middle uh of
running project they decide to separate
uh products between different uh
families.
because they have should have different
attributes and in this case it will be a
headache. And remember we were
uh talking about uh product units u we
may have u several units u uh set up for
the uh enabled for the product. Uh but
if in your case u single unit is enough
just enable it at the very beginning and
use it. Do not focus on uh multi-unit
mode.
Okay, this is it related to products and
master catalog uh topic
and let's switch to the questions.
So the first question when you say
indexer are you referring to some uh uh
to some indexing process that generates
flat tables in the database from the raw
catalog data or it's just elastic search
or something similar that needs to be
indexed via message Q and you basically
answer the above question. So you can
ignore that. Okay. Are there any
indexing processes related to other
entity types or it is only for products?
Okay. So
meant to say search not products. Uh so
this um so there are like
so first I will briefly u summarize. So
we do have like a lot of information
stored in a back office uh related to
the product or to other entities. Uh but
searching uh performing search uh would
require us only limited set of data uh
to be checked uh for the search results.
That's why uh only limited amount is
data is uh prepared and then exposed to
the search index and under search index
uh could be could serve either a
database table or uh elastic search
could be used for that purpose. Um yeah
so the main idea to limit uh the amount
of data and expose only that that is uh
required for search for search results
and yeah to perform a quicker search and
the second thing is that uh while doing
indexing so what kind of data could be
exposed to to the index it could be uh
the data exposed related to the
storefront part and for the storefront
This is uh
uh product and brand entity. And another
thing uh we do also have a index a
separate index for the uh back office
data. So all uh customer customer user
entities uh orders and so on they are
exposed to the back office index and for
that we have like a different common for
for running u and different u processes
event listeners which tracks when the
entity should be reindexed and put uh to
the to the index.
Uh
so we do have other processes related to
other other entities not only products
but also uh back office entities we're
talking about storefront this is brand
entities
are all websites using sorry
I was just going to ask a follow-up
question quick on that is
the so the back office indexing is that
related to trying improve like listing
performance or is that also a search
index?
This is a search index. Okay. And it it
is used uh here whenever you are
searching uh
where it is.
Okay. So it's more like it's basically
the same idea as the front end just more
entities.
Yes. Mhm. Yes. As a front end. And here
I am uh I am entering company and all
the entities which uh contains this
company uh term company token are then
listed in the search results and you see
that related to the account entity
business customers and so on.
Perfect. Okay. Thank you.
And the next questions are all websites
using a single category tree. Is it
possible to have more than a single uh
root category? Uh so all the websites
are using single category tree and uh
yeah there is no ability to to have uh
uh is it possible to have more than
single uh no it is not but um this is
the topic um we will cover
after the break. uh how you can um u use
you can you can have different uh uh
roots categories or category trees
depending on a on a website uh on the
websites that you have. So master
catalog is just for
main assigning uh products to the
categories. Uh but then on top of it uh
we may have so-called web catalog. Uh
this is master catalog and we will have
web catalog. And then within a web
catalog we will have the ability to uh
have different uh three uh category
trees and then assign them uh for
different
use for different websites for different
uh customer groups.
Okay, then let's uh
make a 10 minutes break uh and continue
with the topic I've just started to
introduce about uh web uh cataloges.
10 minutes break.
Thank you.
Okay, 10 minutes has passed.
Hope you're ready to continue.
I am Meanwhile, I'll open the the
slides.
I'm back. Yeah,
thank you.
Okay. So we have products and we have
categorized products uh using master uh
catalog. So with that we have single
product assigned to single category uh
of master catalog. Now we would like to
have uh to present u a user uh a
different content u not fully strict to
the uh to the categories to the to to
how products are assigned to the
categories. For that we have uh
so-called web cataloges and uh web
catalog is a management content
management tool which gives you which
gives us an ability to personalize
personalize uh how the content uh the
category three is presented for the
different types of users and different
cases like website or depending on
localization dependent on a customer
group of customer.
It uh uh might have the catalog, might
have different uh uh
type of pages. Uh not only a collection
of products as we usually uh get used
to, but also uh some landing pages, some
uh pre-existing
system pages or
um collections of products which are not
really strict to specific category. We
will check that. And this was the the
aim of this concept is to have better uh
purchase experience of uh end users.
Uh yeah and have more more purchases. Uh
and
uh
okay uh
uh let's check uh probably
uh yeah I will check in a in a few
minutes.
Okay I will start with the demonstration
how it looks.
Uh let's go to the back office and as I
mentioned this is a content management
tool right uh that's why this uh it
should be under marketing u uh under
marketing so web catalog
web catalog
so out of the box we have like a default
uh with the demo data default web
catalog we will check it how but we can
create as many web cataloges as we uh
would like to have uh then u with an
ability to assign them or use them for
different websites uh uh in our in our
application
it takes
for some reason
time that I am expecting okay for
creating a catalog what you would need
to provide is a name description and
that's
you have a catalog then you once you
have a catalog created then you are able
to uh create a tree of this uh web
catalog. So uh navigating to addit
content tree we are able to u create
some content nodes
assign uh some u what kind of variance
of the content
note should be but we will check it on a
real example we have already in the
database.
Let me switch back to web cataloges. Um
so the one that already exists I will go
to edit content tree and we will check
here. So we have a main uh root content
node which is called default web catalog
and it contains of uh
sub uh sub nodes and uh with that we
have like a navigation route node which
will be used for navigation and we have
u a notes for categorizing products by
category by brand by clearance
and so on
by filtering or categorizing products by
new arrivals and other stuff.
Uh
okay, we have a web catalog. Web catalog
contains of um this is a tree of some
nodes. Uh so each node
Each note
uh contains of the title um this slack I
will check a bit later the URL slack
which gives us the ability to then
access this web catalog uh node uh some
search engine optimization uh options
similar to those we have checked for the
category and for the products. I will
not uh stop on this. And we have a
restrictions for the
uh to specify restrictions uh which will
mean uh so uh to which uh this uh
content not uh of web catalog will be
available. So uh in this certain case u
it will be available for the company A
but I will actually demonstrate in a
moment. Uh and uh we are able to specify
so restrictions plus uh what kind of uh
varants um uh could should have this u
content note. Um
okay let's
switch one step back.
Um before I start configuring and uh
performing some changes and
demonstrating I will
uh demonstrate one uh one thing
um
okay so under routing
so on websites routin
uh we have
a setting to specify what kind of web
catalog uh could be used. Remember we
have uh we have the ability to create
several content uh web cataloges and uh
then we are able to assign them uh
either uh on a global configuration
level or navigating to the uh to the uh
specific website uh specific website uh
configuration uh assign some specific
for instance the I would like to uh use
for the uh all the websites as a default
web catalog this one. But on the other
hand side navigating to website uh
configurations
uh I might have a specific um web
catalog for uh this Canada website.
So this is the option which manages uh
assigning uh
cataloges to different u depending on
different websites. Okay, let's keep it
u
uh don't change. And uh
so we have a web catalog which is
assigned um to the website or globally.
And once we have a web catalog, we are
able to specify uh what kind of uh uh
node should be used as a navigation
route of this web catalog. U so we have
this specified here navigation route. Uh
remember we have uh this default web uh
catalog three navigation route products
and I have specified that uh my
navigation route of main navigation menu
uh will start providing its navigation
items uh from navigation root uh node
uh we have these changes. Okay. So
whenever I am
on a website I uh do have the same
navigation that was assigned in a
configuration. So products new arrivals
clearance and with some subcategories uh
sub nodes of this web catalog. So you
see they are all reflecting uh the same
structure we
uh we have in a uh web catalog.
Let me switch back. So navigation route
then products by category by brand new
arrivals
all that stuff is listed here.
If I uh do not specify uh
okay let me then uh demonstrate that how
navigation rout works. Now I will change
and u uh make navigation route start
from products. I will save the changes.
I will refresh the page.
Before that we have products new
arrivals clearance I have changed and
now it starts from another level um and
we have it listed by category by brand
by clearance these levels
I will revert the change
and I will also demonstrate. So if we
are not using web catalog
uh if I clear this option then for
navigation I will be using uh the
website will be using master catalog. I
will save the changes.
I will refresh the page. And now we have
the navigation menu provided from master
catalog. The one we were configuring at
the very beginning of day one of day
two. Uh lightning products medical. So
these are categories of master u uh
master catalog.
Yeah. But if you would like to have like
some specific u uh user experience not
uh tied to the master catalog then we
are using web catalog. Let me u
assign web catalog and continue
configuring it.
I have reverted the changes. Let's
check.
Now we are back and using web catalog
for navigation menu and we'll continue
checking how we can set up this web
catalog.
Let me switch back to the uh to the
slides. So we have the ability to um
create multiple web cataloges and then
assign them uh per different websites.
And this is how you will have different
user experience uh different web catalog
uh depending on a website user is using
uh yeah but on the other hand side you
can reuse the same web catalog between
uh different websites or assign the same
web catalog to different websites.
uh I have demonstrated how web catalog
is used to build the navigation menu. So
this is is set up as a source of the
navigation menu. Plus we are able to set
up what from what u route we are
starting uh from what node sorry we are
starting our navigation menu
and this is managed in system
configuration. We have just checked
uh yeah the navigation menu it contains
several levels and depending on what
level we are uh in it like opens second
levels and all other u nested levels of
this uh of the content uh web catalog uh
nodes web catalog tree.
Uh we have checked briefly uh of what uh
properties web catalog note contains
and uh title URL some restrictions. Uh
but uh the main thing we have not
touched. So I will demonstrate how
restriction works and then we will
switch to different variants. Okay. Uh
so let me demonstrate how restriction
works.
Uh so I have this web catalog uh tree
with the favorite products. Uh right now
this favorite products is pointing to to
homepage
and uh let me save the changes
and simply
right now it has no restrictions. uh
those variants what kind of variants we
will cover in a moment let's check
restrictions
uh so if I go to the storefront let me
refresh
under products uh oh where it was
favorite
yeah uh so under products we have by
category brand clearance and um uh
favorite products. Uh so
the note that is listed here which was
recently created is reflected in a
storefront in a navigation menu and I am
also able to access uh this page which
is uh simply a homepage u right now as
the source uh as the content of this
note.
Uh now let me restrict this uh uh page
and
specify that I would like to have it
available only for company A uh
customers. I will save the changes.
Now
me being as a guest user which
is not a company a user uh navigating to
the same or landing to the same uh web
catalog uh content node uh I have a
restrictions and I do not see uh this
page. Additionally, this uh menu item is
also removed uh from the navigation
menu. Favorite products are not listed
here. So now if I log in uh as a company
A user
the navigation menu changes. I have
favorite products. I am able to access
favorite products because this uh uh
content node it is restricted and
specifically allowed only for company A
uh customer users.
This is how restriction works on
uh
on the content on the whole content
node. We will also then check how they
works depending on the variance.
Okay, I will revert the change save.
Let me switch back to slides to check.
Um so where restrictions I have
demonstrated see fields nothing special
to add they act the same as for the
category or for the products. Uh let's
uh check uh content note restrictions.
Okay.
Um
okay.
Okay. Uh so we have a web catalog uh
node favorite products. We have the
ability to restrict this node per
depending on a customer customer group
website or localization. Under
restriction it is it means uh whom we
allow to access uh this uh content note.
On the other hand side, we are
specifying uh within a content variance
section, we are specifying uh what
content uh should be provided by uh this
um uh node favorite products node and
it might be um different uh
depending on your needs. So um
plus
it might be uh we can have several uh
variants uh for the content node. Uh you
see that I have just created one this
one system page another one and then I
can uh restrict uh and specify to what
customer group or website or
localization to display this or that
content variant. Let's actually start
demonstrating. I will start
demonstrating with different um content
variants. um what kind of uh contents
could be listed per each individual
node.
Okay, I will start with the
uh let me check uh what I have here in
the
uh on the slides.
Uh so variant okay variant itself it
represents that content that is visible
for the user and we may have several
variants.
One is marked as default. Others then
are u restricted uh
depending on different levels. We have
customer custom group and so on. And uh
non-default uh variants they should be
always uh restricted to uh the depending
on on some level. So the default should
have no restrictions but then on top we
have other variants uh content variants
that should be uh restricted
depending on customer group or website
or localization.
What kind of uh variance uh web catalog
note could have uh first it could have a
type be of system page type of product
product collection category and landing
page. So like three uh five of them
right but the number of types they are
not limited and we have uh cases when
this uh list of types is extended with
some additional uh types which is
preferable by the clients and we have a
documentation how to create uh to
introduce another type uh mainly it
should implement this content variant
type interface is and we should have
like step by step uh uh what should be
added u uh to the code
uh like this creating a migration
extending a table with some uh with some
additional uh fields relational field uh
introducing a form type for the uh new
type creating variant type. Yeah, like
three, four, four steps and yeah,
introducing also a uh template for the
for the new type. But now let's focus to
existing ones. So please refer to this
documentation if you uh need to create
your own uh content types
uh content variants. Uh okay, let's
start with the first one. And this is a
system page uh variant.
uh if I go here to the favorite products
I have already
[Music]
so let's let me start from the beginning
so if you would like to add some content
variant we should go to the content
variant section and here select the type
of the variant we would like to add in
our case we will start with the system
page so system page it provides a form
with one single field uh to specify what
kind of system page root to use. Here we
have like a list of them. You see that
uh not so much probably of them and
these are system uh pages which uh exist
in u storefront actually storefront
pages. So I have picked up a welcome uh
home page. Let's pick uh uh for instance
uh
[Music]
let's pick up um this page uh one of the
front end customer user page. Okay, I
will save the changes.
Now if I go to uh favorite products, let
me refresh.
So I was still on the same um content
node navigation products favorite
products. I have refreshed. Now I am
landed to uh to the system page which is
customer user profile.
If you are navigating from here from
navigation menu, I will click the page
is reloaded again and on a system page
uh my profile and you see that the list
of them is uh
uh quite specific how it could be
achieved. uh what kind of uh
what kind of uh roots are exposed uh uh
to that uh to that field. So uh roots
which has no parameters like product ID
or like some I don't know shopping list
ID without any parameters they should be
marked with a front end true uh option.
Remember we are talking this on day one.
So front end root should be marked as uh
uh front end true. Uh plus uh those
roots should start their name with the
oro or roots. But um
and here is the uh form type uh root
choice uh form type which is responsible
for uh selecting
uh for patching
those roots uh and providing in a uh
in the field in this one system
uh system page uh root field.
So please refer to this uh form type uh
in case you have you need to introduce
your own roots. This is something you
would need to to check and extend with
your logic. For instance, not only oral
roots but uh roots starting with your uh
with your some specific uh name space
and and
okay we have a system page. Um by the
way this system page that I have just
selected it is uh
uh I have selected um right now uh
customer user uh customer user profile
uh so me being logged in uh I am able to
access this uh this uh this page but if
I log out I will be still using in this
system page uh customer user user
profile but as a guest user I have no
access to my profile that's why I am
redirected to uh sign in uh window sign
in page
okay I have specified the system page
now let's uh continue this is the first
type we have uh here the next type we
have a product page variant and it
simply represents a page uh of the uh of
some single product like product details
page. Imagine that you would like to
promote uh to promote some uh product
some specific product and for that you
may assign this product details page to
uh favorite products.
uh let's go to
to the default uh web catalog favorite
products and I will remove this system
page but rather add product page within
a product page I would need to specify
the product uh to uh to be um what kind
of product I would like to be listed on
this page I will pick up uh
uh let's pick
this one.
Okay. And I will save the changes. So,
so now my favorite products uh its
content is product page with a some
specific product page I just selected.
So, if I go to products favorite
product, we have a uh favorite products
page with the
details of the product that I've just
specified. Uh you see that we have this
favorite products uh title here and uh I
am able to uh either use it uh if I have
this rewrite variant title enabled or
skip it uh rewriting and use the title
which is provided by the page and the
title provided by the page is actually
the product uh product name. So this is
how I can configure what title to
display here.
So this is the second uh uh type of
content variant uh we can use. Let's
continue. And as you have noticed there
are no like some specific parameters for
this uh product page. You just need to
select the product and uh uh that's it
and product details page will be
rendered. The next thing is product
collection. Within a product collection,
let's go here. I will remove this one.
We have a product collection. Okay.
Within a product collection, we have a
form which gives us to the ability to
specify what collection of products you
would like to be listed on this page.
And this is where we can u have a
category category tree uh with the nodes
which contain uh duplicated values of
the uh of the product. So imagine we
have uh like few favorite uh products
categories and we assign we can assign
the same product to different u to
different nodes of this uh of this tree.
And I will um so there is there are a
few options how we can assign
products to this collection. Uh one of
the option we can simply specify a
segment name. Um
so if we have um system
um
no reports reports and segments so we
can uh create a segment using uh manage
segments and in a segment specify
product some uh product entity. Okay,
let me open quickly.
We can create a segment, specify a
product uh
for the product entity to create a
segment.
uh create uh some dynamic type,
pick up some columns, pick up filters
and actually you will have uh a segment
which include some set of uh products
like featured products not depending on
some specific flag and then uh you can
specify the name of the segment
uh here in the
uh for the product collection. Another
thing you can uh assign products using
this uh filter. I will uh pick up field
condition that pick up product ID is uh
greater than
uh greater than 10. Okay. Preview
results.
So I have assigned the whole collection
of products using uh this uh filter by
ID and here are all the products which
has ID greater than 10. And you can
actually use any fields like uh not ID
but some specific flag or attribute here
for for filtering products.
And uh after we have selected we can
specify the sort order uh and so on like
similar we had for the
uh for the category. I will save the
changes.
So we have the same favorite products
but now it is a product collection which
has a collection of uh 57 records. And
please notice that uh under the hood
when we were selecting um not selecting
but defining this filter under the hood
uh a segment uh with this filter values
was created with some hash values uh
here. So product collections they are
relying on segments and the way you
specify the segment either creating
manually from reports and segments or
from here it does not actually really
matters. Okay let's check how it works.
Uh now I will go to products favorite
products.
Okay I have uh click products favorite
products. I have landed to this uh to
this page. So 57 remember products were
assigned. I guess some of them uh like
two of them are disabled. Uh that's why
we we see only 55. Um I'm pretty sure
uh and we have a collection of products
which we've specified here.
Oh, maybe some of them were uh these are
test products which are I guess not
listed uh for configurable. Yeah. Uh so
we have all of them but remember we are
not displaying uh varants of
configurable products. That's why we are
missing these two test one and test two.
Uh so we can actually use uh filters. We
can add manually some specific product.
Let's pick up uh for instance this tech
one manually. We can also exclude some
products from the list. For instance, I
would not like this all these products.
I would like to exclude them from the
list.
Okay.
And now I have like a final result
should be 40
48. I will save the changes.
I will refresh the page and I have uh 48
products of this collection.
of this product collection.
So uh product collection uh within a
product collection we can assign u same
product to different uh web catalog
nodes and this is how you can achieve
that uh product will appear in different
uh in different categories of your web
catalog. uh they could be assigned
manually or they could be assigned uh
using those filters that I've just uh
demonstrated but under the hood uh this
collection uses segments engine. So
under the hood segment is generated and
simply used for the for the collection
and uh yeah you can use exclusions
manual selections and keep in mind so
this is not uh while you are assigning
products uh uh
within product collections to the web
catalog categories you are not
introducing this is not like done from
uh by product uh many to
uh categories relation but rather
through this segments engine.
Okay. The next thing is uh a category
variant. So we may have assigned some
specific collection. On the other hand
side you may just simply uh assign some
uh category of master uh catalog. So
imagine I would like for favorite
products to display uh lightning
products and I will save. So the the all
the products which are in this category
I will save the changes.
I will go back to products, my favorite
products,
and I have uh all the products from the
uh lightning products uh
from the lightning products uh category
because I am using a content variant uh
named category. There is an option to uh
either include subcategories or just
list only uh those products which belong
to the uh to the one category we have
just selected. Let's pick up do not
include. So right now we should we
should not list uh products for
architectural and headlamps but only
list uh those which are assigned to
light uh lighting products. I will save
the changes.
I will refresh the page. Now we have
like seven records and only those which
are assigned to directly to uh lighting
uh products uh category.
So now we are kind of reusing uh master
catalog and uh using its information to
uh list uh certain products uh from
certain categories under web catalog uh
node.
Okay. And the last uh thing we have is
this landing page uh variant uh of type.
It simply renders some uh landing page
we have uh in a system. Let's go and
quickly check how it works.
Okay. So I will close this one.
I will remove this one
and I will pick pick up the last type
landing page. So landing page and here
is uh here it presents a field for
selecting those landing pages which
exist uh in a system.
Uh let me pick up uh
about page.
I will save the changes. Meanwhile, I
will go and demonstrate from where those
landing pages are capped. So marketing
under marketing landing pages,
we have this a list of landing pages. We
can introduce some specific landing page
with some which will promote some
favorite products and assign uh this
landing page to the uh required web
catalog node. So okay we have a landing
page with a about uh landing page. I
will go back to uh storefront go to
favorite products and now we are using
landing page. So here you can specify uh
some information about favorite
products, how to pick up, what kind of
favorite products and promote them using
landing pages.
Oops,
simply duplicates. Sorry. Um now I will
quickly demonstrate how we can
uh remember we can have like different
um variants specified for the web uh
catalog node. Uh I have created u one
content variant which is landing page.
Now I will create another uh product
details page and at here
um
this one
and specify that I would like this
variant uh product page to be uh visible
for company A. Okay.
So all users will see uh landing page
variant the default one while company A
users will see or should see uh this uh
product and you can add as many uh
variants as you would like and specify
depending on group website and
localization. I will save the changes.
So we have two variants. One variant is
default and another one is product
details page which is for company A.
Let's check.
Okay. So I will go to product. Oops. Uh
product favorite products. I am still on
about uh landing page which is a default
one. Now let me sign in as a company a
user which is Amanda. Navigate to
favorite products and instead of seeing
uh variant uh from landing page I am
seeing uh PDP product details page from
the product I have just uh specified
this uh foldable uh wheelchair.
So this is how we can manage and uh uh
manage what kind of content to present
depending on
um on customer customer group and uh
website and localization.
So talking about the differences um from
one hand side we have checked what kind
of master catalog how it looks like and
on the other hand side we have checked
web catalog and here is the table which
uh explains the difference describes the
difference between these two uh
concepts. When we were talking about
master catalog, we have checked that we
can have only one instance of uh master
catalog and products are categorized
depending on it. Uh while with a web
catalog we may have multiple web
cataloges and then assign those web
cataloges uh depending on a for
different websites.
uh when we were talking about product
association so single product was
assigned to one category uh
of master uh catalog while within a web
catalog we were able to u assign product
to different collections. So product
then will appear in different in
multiple uh categories of web catalog.
Uh then with visibility restrictions uh
u if we are restricting u uh restricting
making hidden uh some web catalog it uh
web catalog category it will influence
on visibility of the product. So product
becomes available user will see 404.
While with a web catalog the restriction
they do not affect products product will
still be available. Uh what is u
restricted is the content uh content of
the uh web catalog. Remember we were
changing like in the in the example I
have just demonstrated we have
restricted the content for all users. it
was uh like a landing page but for uh
for others it was uh for company it was
PDP. So we are just restricting content
but not the product itself. And uh
within a master catalog we have uh this
restrictions
uh could be we can set up uh the
fallbacks uh so that the restrictions uh
uh visibility restrictions are taken
based on global configuration website uh
configuration. This is for the product
uh customer group levels. While for the
web catalog there is no fallbacks uh
just uh plain settings uh here depending
on room customer website that's it no
fallbacks. So these are the differences
between uh master catalog and web
catalog.
Uh so if uh there is a need to u to
apply some customizations related to web
catalog. So we have this
request web content uh variant provider.
Uh in some cases it is used um it simply
knows on what uh what kind of content
variant uh to provide and um yeah it
checks uh stores this value in request.
You can then reuse uh in your templates
for instance uh to provide some specific
u uh specific information.
Uh yeah, this is an example how this
provider is used especially for the
breadcrumbs
crumbs and some user guide example how
to create web catalog and so on. Uh so
whenever you will be starting or
building a project using a commerce
think ahead. Uh so in some cases uh
master catalog would be enough. So you
just categorize your products uh uh
using master catalog using master
catalog and that's it. While on the
other hand side in some cases you would
like to provide better user experience
then you introduce a web catalog then
you introduce some specific uh uh
restrictions uh depending on users
specific content uh uh yeah using this
uh web catalog. But anyway they could be
used both could be used together web
catalog and master catalog.
And uh if you are using uh product
collection uh please do not use with a
huge amount of uh products do not assign
because you may face with some
performance issues. better to reuse uh
master catalog categories uh to to
assign to a collection based on the
master catalog categories you will have
like a better performance with it.
Uh that's it what I wanted to
demonstrate related to web catalog. Now
Q&A.
Okay, we have few questions. Uh why I
cannot add multi select product
attributes to attribute set?
Uh
is this a question related to
configuration? U configurable products
multi select product attribute to
attribute set.
Okay. Figure out. Okay. Certainly. Yeah.
No worries.
Ah, sure. Yeah. I have not read. Yeah.
So whenever you're introducing uh using
uh entity management uh
this entity management uh whenever you
are adding some updates uh then you will
have uh to update schema if you are
running u
so these changes then should be
performed and
uh reflected uh on the uh entity
on the entity level
Yeah, for that there would be a red
button update schema if you are doing
this uh using migration. So it will be
performed uh during upgrade process.
Is there some rules around how
attributes get stored? Will they always
get stored as a table column or sometime
be serialized? Yeah. So there is an
explanation in what cases um uh you can
use serialized fields um serialized
field but not uh
or serialized
but not as column um
there was a good example serialized
fields.
Yep. Here you are.
Uh so this is an explanation by the way
it was introduced uh not so long ago and
there are some limitations for this uh
for these fields and what kind of types
are supported for this serialized
fields. Please refer to this for
for more information
according to your specific case you
would like to achieve.
Yeah. So
so
if there is an ability please use it.
Yes. Will product attributes created
through the back office or through
migrations always be stored in table
columns or is there
could a productized
within within serialized fields you you
should you would not need to perform uh
uh schema migration um schema updates
uh so they will be used store it in this
serialized data field which under the
hood will be like you know object or
array Uh yeah, that's why no need.
But only when I'm creating a field will
I be able to pick serialized. If I
create an attribute, it'll always be a
table column.
Correct.
It seems like Mhm. Yes.
Okay.
Then let's take 10 minutes break and
we are a bit out of uh schedule with the
time u and let's continue with the
pricing u too much topics to discuss
today uh pricing so 10 minutes break and
let's continue then
so
we have checked uh how products could be
set how we can assign products to master
catalog to web catalog. Now the question
is how to set up prices for those
products which will be visible in a
storefront for the end users to know for
which price they are buying uh buying
our products.
And
let me pick up
uh related slides.
I will close those we have already went
through
and let's start with the pricing.
Uh so you within a Oro and uh Oro
pricing engine you will be able to set
up uh flexible prices depending on uh
different uh scopes of data like u
depending on a website depending on the
customer groups or customers they um
which are navigating the website.
Another thing that uh you can uh assign
prices or you can define prices not only
manually but also automatically. So
whenever some change is performed over
the product uh uh or new product is
added the price is generated by
automatically by some uh rules and some
conditions. Uh there is also an ability
to uh set up prices for uh certain
period of time amount of time
uh using uh schedules and we will check
that and uh uh there is an ability to
specify automatic uh prices while on the
other hand side uh override with some
manual changes. We will check that as
well. If we are talking about prices, it
includes like following
components. U currencies,
uh product prices, uh then price lists,
uh this is the place where actually uh
product prices are stored. Uh then price
attributes. Uh we will check it. Um
another thing is um how
prices are
um combined and final prices are uh
provided for the end user is using this
so-called pricing strategy. So we have
two of them. We will check how it works.
And we have u the
uh layer which is responsible for uh
assigning uh products uh to the price
list and doing some uh price
calculation. Uh and this is uh mainly
for some automatic u price calculations.
Let's start with the first item which is
currencies. So currency itself it
contains as an entity or is a as a
record it contains of the name code
symbol. We might have multiple
currencies. U in enterprise edition. Uh
while in community we will have single
currency. Uh there is an ability to
specify exchange rates between
currencies and uh um there should be set
up like one uh base currency for that.
Let's uh start with the
uh back office.
Check how it works.
How it is presented there. Currencies I
mean. So under system configuration
we have currency
section.
And here we have already uh added a list
of uh currencies u all available
currencies u uh with which we are
working u in our application like US
dollar, euro and so on and we can add uh
other currencies we would like to have
on our website. So having u some primary
some base uh currency US dollars we are
also able to specify uh exchange rates
between uh this u
additional additional currencies.
Um yeah and I have as I have mentioned
currency has a its name code symbol and
uh the rates like specifying the rates
uh they are used those you've seen you
are checking me see right now they are
used only for internal prop purposes
for some um they are added for internal
purposes in some for some back office
logic and they are not used uh on the
storefront. So if we are presenting uh
product uh in uh United States, US
dollars uh and switching to euro
currency, it will not uh uh the rate
will not be uh taken uh for
recalculation. Uh
the prices will be provided simply from
the price list. We will check that. Uh
so these are the rates which are used
only for uh just for storing uh for
further usage uh in your customizations
maybe for preparing some reports uh like
that.
Uh just keep in mind this is not
something that is uh for the storefront.
Okay, we have uh configuration, we have
added those currencies we would like to
possible currencies uh that are
available globally and then we are
assigning uh specific
currencies which should be used on our
website
uh pricing and here we have enabled
single United States uh dollars
currency. If we enable more currencies
switch will appear. This is something
we've seen um while checking websites.
Okay, we have a currency
and we have some exchange rates for
internal needs. Then we have a product
price. Product price its definition
contains of uh following uh items. This
is a product to which this price uh
belongs to uh a price list in which uh
this price is defined for which quantity
uh for which uh unit of measure.
Remember we might be selling in items in
sets. That's why we would need to have a
price depending on a unit. Then a
currency that's obvious. So we might be
selling in uh
uh
US dollars in uh euros that's why
currency should also be taken into
account and actual the price value uh
the amount of money to charge customer
for the product. So with that we have uh
this uh product price list quantity and
unit and currency should we should have
like a unique combination of it. We
could not have like for the same
product, same priceless, same quantity
uh the same uh value uh
back office restricts adding prices but
having this combination not unique
and uh how prices could be defined I
will demonstrate. Let's uh actually
start here.
So if you go to
the storefront,
we are navigating the website. We see
the prices and specifically the price
for the uh for specific uh currency for
specific unit of quantity
uh we uh for specific quantity. So these
are so-called tire prices. So depending
on the purchased quantity the price uh
value might differ and so just as an
example so if I am purchasing one item
um this is price 76 while purchasing 11
items uh it will uh pick up lower price
for the for the 10 and more quantity so
that's why quantity are also taken into
account for the prices, actual priced
value and uh so prices are visible on
the product listing page on the product
uh details page. If we navigate to the
shopping list,
prices are also are also listed here if
they are defined. And going to the
checkout, they also reflected there. We
will check that uh during checkout.
Okay, we have uh this thing uh on a
storefront. I have demonstrated how it
looks like the prices those uh tool tips
with demonstrate tire prices how they
are defined in a back office. Uh there
are a few ways how to define. So, uh,
let me pick up one of the products.
Actually,
let's pick up this one.
Go to products.
Uh, products.
Okay. So, I am on a product view page.
Uh, going to the edit uh page under
product prices.
Here we have all possible product prices
depending on a price list. So we have
the ability to assign to different
prices price list sorry uh the prices
and then those prices might be used by
different uh uh by different customer
groups website and so on. We will check
it. Uh quantity value currency same
and actually unit of uh uh unit of
quantity. Uh let's change the price for
uh what was that?
So we can define a price uh here. So
adding not adding a price right on the
product edit page specifying the price
list quantity. So we imagine I will pick
up the
uh customer price with a quantity 100
with a set with the value and for the
yellow robot with another uh value. I
will try to save the changes
and it will not allow me to save the
changes as I have a duplication for this
uh
uh I have not unique combination for the
priceless quantity unit of um quantity
currency and that's why it restricts me
to do this. So I will remove this uh
save the changes.
So this is option number one how prices
could be defined. Option number two is
when I go to uh price list that I have
in the system. So I have several of them
they are assigned to some u on some
levels. We will check it. So if I
navigate to the default price list here
I also able to add uh product price.
specify the product, specify the
quantity,
unit and price and it will be uh store
that. Let's actually add for the
quantity five just as an example. Let's
pick uh let's it be
[Music]
is it using set
Yes. Set. Mhm.
Okay. I will save the changes.
So now I have the prices um updated for
this product. Now I have the price
specified for another tire uh like for
the quantity five like purchasing six
product will give me the price of uh 20
rather than this one or this one. Okay,
this is the second thing uh where we can
add prices. Another thing we can uh use
import file and within the import file
we are downloading a template and then
there are two options how to add those
prices either to add or replace existing
or simply reset the whole price list and
populate with those uh uh with those
prices uh which were specified in a
in the uh import file.
Okay, this is the second thing how
prices could be added and yeah let's
let's continue.
Now we came to the uh to the term uh
called price list. Uh so in a price list
we are defining
product prices which are matching by
quantity uh
currency um and actually specifies the
value of the of the price. uh each price
list. It could be um a static which
defines like static prices uh per each
uh product which is added to the price
list, right? Or it could be
autogenerated
and autogeneration is um performed based
on some rules. We will check it. Uh on
the other hand side, it could be mixed.
So we can like autogenerate uh some um
uh product uh prices while others could
be added manually
uh by uh by the back office users and um
they may rely on some uh additional uh
indicators like uh product availability,
some uh price attributes, some
recommended price and we will check it
in a moment.
So if we are creating a price list, it
contains of uh following
properties. Let's go to price list. So
these are located under sales price
list. We will create a price list.
I would need to specify the name of the
price list, the currencies for which
this uh price list will be uh working
with. Let's pick up US dollars only
whether it should be active or not. So
whenever you are working with some u
draft prices uh just keep it uh as not
active and then on the make active when
the price list should be
available for the storefront. Then we
have a field for specifying schedules.
So with that we can uh we can specify in
what period uh this uh particular price
list should be uh should be active and
the prices which are specified in the
price list should be taken into account
for the final u uh price that customer
user sees in a storefront.
Uh we can have like um a collection of
uh these schedules.
Uh both fields are optional. You can
specify only activate date while do not
specify deactivate date and uh on the
other hand side you can specify
deactivate date without specifying
activate date.
Uh
and we have this product assignment
rules and price calculation rules. These
are used for uh autogenerating uh price
lists. Okay, I will save the changes
and we have a price list but it has no
uh no product no product prices
um
and it is not assigned to any customer
customer groups website u uh and so on.
Uh so what we have on a price list u
view page we have an ability to add
product prices manually. So if I choose
a product this one quantity one
so I am able to add product price and it
immediately appears here I am able to
disable make it
disabled the price list uh in general I
may duplicate a price list so prepare
one price list then duplicate and
perform some uh adjustments uh on top of
uh the one that was used original. Uh
whenever you are performing some changes
within a prices within a assigning price
list to different
customer groups and so on. Uh prices
final prices which then user will see
here in a storefront. They are
calculated
uh as a background in a background
background process and actually you
should not uh uh bother on that they are
recalculated but on the other hand side
we have this uh recalculate button which
will uh perform manual recalculation of
the price list. So in case maybe uh like
message consumer got stucks uh uh or
busy with too many messages uh in the
queue you may use recalculate to
recalculate it uh faster uh avoiding uh
message queue. So we have the ability to
export price lists defined here um in
this uh product prices import I have
already mentioned and adding and
deleting those uh price list. Okay, we
have a price list with the basic
information and ability to add prices.
Let's continue.
Um yes, so keep um price list inactive
when you are considering it as a draft
and only then enable uh when um it
should go live.
Uh
let's continue
price list schedules. Uh yeah this is
the collection which I've demonstrated
here.
You specify a collection
and then uh the date from the date uh
start date and end date of the of this
schedule and you can have multiple slots
of those periods when this uh prices
should be active. But then it uh under
the hood it is u u handled by this oro
chrome price list schedule uh command
which actually responsible for uh
activating
final price list within that uh uh
period of time. And yeah, here is the
comment how it calculates and
tracks what kind of combined prices to
enable or not. And uh uh this comment is
also listed here under
uh schedule tasks and we may check uh
the definition and
um
price list. By the way, you may see that
not only
though there is uh command okay price
yeah price list schedule and we also
price list remove unused. Yeah and here
is the definition at what period uh this
comment is triggered.
uh while setting up uh u price list we
can u add prices manually as I've
demonstrated here using uh
this thing or we can assign uh product
uh and define prices automatically
actually let's uh check how it works and
these are basically I will add it. Okay.
And this is done using this uh product
assignment and price calculation rules.
So product assignment is responsible for
defining what products should be
assigned to this price list. For me not
to add manually all products one by one
uh or import them via file. But imagine
I will have I would like to have all
products included in a in a uh in this
price list. So for that I have this uh
expression language and while clicking
so it already suggests me few entities I
can work with for defining what kind of
products I would like to assign and we
have like either rely on the price list
entity
uh or on some product. So let's pick up
uh I will create a test pick uh price
list which will have uh as an example
I will have a default price list plus uh
10 percentage. So for that I will use as
assigning products I will use price
list. Uh then I will use uh uh default
price list as a source of the products
and I will pick up uh pick up
created uh
assign all assigned products.
Will it work? We'll we'll see.
And add a calculation. So here with the
price calculation rules I will define.
So this part uh is responsible for u
managing what kind of products I am
assigning to the price list while this
part is u responsible for defining how
those prices should be
uh should be assigned
uh
should be calculated and um the
calculation u of the prices are
performed based on the quantity
unit of uh measure or unit of quantity
and currency. So I will uh I may use
some static values uh like generate only
for quantity one and for u specific uh
set specific unit of measure and
specific currency. On the other hand
side I can also use expression to
generate this uh prices. I will pick up
expression and for the I will pick up.
[Music]
Let me check what was that.
Yeah, I should start price list.
So price list I will refer to I will
pick up quantities or prices from price
list one within a uh within a for the
price list one this is a default one
there are prices which are defined there
and quantity
yep quantity
for the unit I will also pick up price
list one uh prices units
and for the currency
I will also pick up all prices from the
price list one and their currencies and
I will calculate uh product uh price as
price list
from the taking prices from the default
one I will pick up prices and the value
which will be multiplied on
1.1
which will be 10 percentage on top of
the default price list. So once again we
have
uh we have a price list which will be
generated uh based on the default price
list that's why I named it so uh so for
assigning products I am using default
price list and picking up all assigned
products and I'm using uh expression to
specify uh what quantity what unit of
measure and what currency to pick up for
the qu for the prices and also the value
how it should be calculated. I will save
the changes. So and as a mandatory field
I should have a priority defined uh for
this uh for this rules. And by the way,
you may have like uh a collection of
rules uh here defined and all of them
will then be combined to the final one
uh rule
and based on that not final actually
rule but based on those set of rules uh
calculation rules final prices will be
uh will be prepared. Okay. I will have
for now just one single rule. Uh I will
save the changes.
Okay, this one I have used an incorrect
uh assigned products.
[Music]
So we see how we can build the
expression. So we have a suggestion
um
I would like to pick up all assigned
products in
ID.
Yeah, that will be let's pick up a bit
easier. I will pick up all products with
ID
uh product ID
more than zero. Just simply pick up all
products. I will save the changes.
So it states that prices will be
recalculated.
Have I performed
uh recalculation take took place?
Now we have a default price list which
was generated
uh using uh those expressions. We have
specified uh prices were generated based
on the default price list and uh let's
actually check it how it works. So I
will pick up uh so and it contains
actually all the products from the from
the default price list. U
okay so I will pick up one of the
products. Uh let's
[Music]
go here.
I will pick up this one.
product SKU. Okay, this one. Uh, so we
have
I will sort by quantity.
Okay, let's go to the default price
list.
Pick up the same product.
uh for the same uh currency. Remember
the the one that we've just created we
were generated only for uh for US uh
dollars currency while default price
list it is it contains currency for uh
prices for multiple currencies. Okay, I
will pick up US dollars only and uh okay
I will sort for now we have uh the same
product within a default price list.
Prices are defined here. Just as an
example, for quantity one, we have
almost 26 while on a default one. Uh for
the quantity one, we have like all 28 uh
and almost half. So which is 10
percentage on top of uh of the one which
is specified here.
Yeah. And for actually for the quantity
five we have 22 which is 10 percentage
more than uh 20 uh which is in a default
price list.
Okay. So
with that we were able to generate price
list uh based on some
assignment what kind of products we
assign to the price list plus plus uh
what kind of uh how we are calculating
the prices for the
uh for this price list. So and here we
may notice that prices which are defined
uh which are listed here they have they
are of type generated which means that
uh yeah they were generated
automatically plus uh remember we were
adding manually manually I have added
one of the prices. So we can contain uh
we can have a price list with both
manually generated uh manually assigned
uh prices and also uh generated uh based
on some rules. Let me demonstrate how uh
this generation
works. I will pick up the same product.
And now I will
uh I will change and um addit price in
the default price list which is the
original one from which we created our
price list and change the price for this
uh
uh for this
quantity. I will specify simply 26.
I will save.
So now we have 26. Um
and if I refresh u the one that we've
just created prices with 10 percentage
of and autogenerated price. So now I
should have for the quantity one uh not
this one value but another one which is
uh 28.6
uh which was auto regenerated based on
the default uh price list. So changing
doing updates in a dep um dependent u in
the main in the base uh price list we
are also uh automatically uh introducing
changes in the dependent u uh price
list.
Let's switch back to
uh to to the slides. Uh so those rules
that I was demonstrated then they used
for automatic generation of price list
and uh we have seen that it might u rely
on edit
u so whenever I am picking up u some
entity it's also suggest me what kind of
property I of the entity I would like to
use what kind of sorry operators I would
like to use and so on and this is
applied for the rules and also for the
uh for the calcula for the assignment
and also for the calculation rules. Uh
we have uh what kind of um
entities we can rely we can rely on a
product entity or on a price list.
within a product entity, we can pick up
uh some specific u uh uh attribute or
family and uh so in this way generate
prices only for specific uh
um on specific uh attribute family or on
specific uh uh category um user uh just
not on specific category. Let's actually
quickly
uh I will put it here.
So if I specify product category
uh within a id let's say equal to
sorry
equal to 10 then I will generate prices
only for the product category with an ID
10 only those uh prices will be assigned
there.
And we have uh uh so documentation how
uh so this is built using symfony
expressions uh this one expression
language
which contains some out ofthe-box uh
literal and operators and so on. And on
top also introduces its own
capabilities for this for using those
expressions.
And we have this uh
uh this article where we have an
examples of what kind of uh how those
expressions could be used. Um here
calculate as in conditions and then
calculate depending on a price list on a
on a product how to pick up and with
with some cases uh how to generate them.
Please refer to it once you will be
setting up your your prices.
Um okay within a price assignment rule
we defined uh products which should be
assigned to the price list. it is um it
then assigns automatically based on that
u criteria that matches the expression.
Um this one
and um yeah just uh for as an easy
example
just generating a price list for all the
products you may pick up product ID with
uh ID more than greater than zero and
you will have all products assigned
and uh yeah I have demonstrated uh for
specific category. This is how we can um
assign products for specific category
and price calculation rules. So
calculation rules this is section this
one. So it uh contains of specifying um
the value for the quantity depending on
the quantity unit and currency.
uh and we can specify like static values
just not use uh depending on a uh price
list or some other entity but just
depending on a uh not dependent but
simply for some static value just for
the US dollars or for some uh
specific uh unit of quantity
right so it depends how you would like
to generate whether
depending on some expression or with
some static values. And we may have uh
this multiple uh
this multiple uh calculation rules. We
can add it as a collection. Uh but then
you would need to specify priority which
expression should be or which rule
should be taken first which should be
taken the next one. Plus uh we may also
add an expression
for what uh uh condition to apply this
uh calculation. For instance, we would
like to calculate this part uh
only for products with the category
uh ID equal to
uh equal to 10.
Here I will pick up all products
id.
So I am assigning all products but
generating prices for category ID with
the
multiplier one uh.1 while for the
for some other category let's say with
an ID 11 I would like to calculate
prices with a another value uh one
multiplier 1.2 like that. So this is the
where the conditions uh could be used
and uh whenever you are u introducing
this autogenerated uh prices with
multiple uh rules it takes some times
though uh in the nearest
um time it was uh improved and now it's
yeah it really takes some time but
really uh very very little amount of
Okay. And now let me uh
let me talk about uh price attributes.
Uh so remember we have prices um which
are assigned to the uh to the price list
and we are generated price list
depending on some u some values from the
price list. So on the other hand side we
can generate prices uh depending on a
price attributes. So what are price
attributes? So if you go to product uh
price
attribute.
Okay. So we have already some uh uh
price attributes uh here listed. Uh so
whenever we are adding additional
attribute to add additional attribute
you would need to go just and create an
attribute
um specify uh the field name for this
attribute uh and currencies in which
this attribute will be used. So right
here we we already have this ERP price
attribute. Imagine that this is the ERP
uh price the price which is in ERP
system which is uh provided on daily
basis using some API u endpoints right
we have this ERP price uh attributes
once we have it then it becomes
available on a product level so let me
go to
one of the products um and I will pick
up actually this on
uh
products
update.
Okay, so I have a product. If I go to
edit,
I have product prices remember depending
on a price list and I have a section uh
with the product prices to define uh uh
price attributes. These are um
attributes which goes out of the box
with the demo data and I have created
this ERP price uh which was specified
only for US dollars and now I am able to
put the values here let's put uh 20 20
let it be simple
uh oh I will not specify for the item
just for the set so price uh I have set
to 20 I will save the changes.
So I have a
price um
attribute ERP price with a value 20. Now
I am able to generate a price list uh
based on the ERP price. Uh how to do
this? This actually this is the
the case where usually this price
attributes are used. You have a year
price which is uh provided u regularly
uh from year and based on it you are
building a uh price list and adding some
margin on top of it. I will go to price
list. Create a price list
price list plus1 US.
It will be for US dollars only. It will
be active.
I will assign
all products though only remember only
one product has this ERP uh ERP price
and I will add price calculation rules.
So for that I will pick up um
that pick up for quantity one
demonstrate not using expressions but
simply and for quant uh for unit uh set
uh for unit set
for US dollar. So right now I am not
using an expressions but just static
values and I will calculate the price
like product ERP price value
plus
uh one U plus one. Okay and priority
one. So once again I am assigning all
products though only one product has ERP
price and I am specifying how to
calculate u price list uh price list uh
depending on this price attribute. So I
am specifying I would like pick up
product Europe price value and multip
sorry additionally one US dollar on top
of it and I'm not using any expressions
but just static values. I will save the
changes.
Okay. So I have only one product where
with the ERP price
um it was um calculated based on ERP
price 20
and on top of that of that we add some
additional margin which is equal to$1
US.
So that's how price attributes could be
used. So if we will be introducing
another uh product uh
ERP
um let's pick up um any actually but
with the set you need to set let's
okay um
this one should be with a set
okay it works addit
So if I add ERP price attribute value
for another product uh let's pick uh
let's be 25
for the set. I will save the changes.
So remember I assigned all products to
that u to this price list and now I
should have it there as well. So it was
autogenerated and on top of 25
additional one US dollar was added price
we have here.
So just to conclude
uh we have this uh price attributes um
you can create it um create them in the
back office create as many as you would
like to have those price attributes.
Once you create them, they are then
available for managing uh for specifying
their values uh on a product edit page.
Uh the values are specified depending on
a uh unit of quantity and currency and
then they could be used uh as uh
building uh
defining price uh prices for the price
list in uh using this uh rule
expressions
and uh yeah so out of the box uh these
two manufacturer suggested retail price
if I'm not mistake taken it is called
and some other manufacturer ad
advertisement price like that
and the values for those price
attributes they are kept in a price
attribute price list entity so you may
check how it looks like
and uh we have a couple of price
calculation examples let's open
yeah depending on some um quantity on on
category on some value for those price
attributes.
Yeah. And the pro properties that's how
it could be uh could be achieved. Yeah.
By the way, you might have like
additional value. You see that on a
category level have some uh margin uh
value and then define prices based on
MSRP value multiplying margin uh plus
five. So so the flexibility how you can
use u uh this expression is quite wide
um for different cases
and uh automation examples.
Yeah, this is something I was I guess I
was already yeah some other examples how
this
expressions could be used.
Okay, so let's uh before we go to
continue with the pricing setup and go
to to more advanced things uh how they
used then
combined
and then presented in a storefront.
Let's uh
make a break. But before a break uh
let's check questions related to this
part.
Okay. Is there any possibility to get
access to the enterprise edition code uh
uh to so we can get better follow along
can gain understanding in our local
environments. So I guess uh like getting
this uh code
uh locally this should be negotiated
with the those who were organizing this
training. I don't know maybe there are
some
uh agreements that could be uh done in
this in this area. On the other hand
side like we have a demo instance
and uh within a demo instance uh there
is an ability to uh to check how
enterprise edition works u from
management console from the back office
standpoint. Uh
so all those uh things are listed uh
uh here the same on the other hand side
check usage as a from the B2B store
perspective as a buyer like logging in
with the administrative role user or as
a buyer and exploring it here like these
are the options. Option number one is
negotiate uh with the organizers of this
training how you can get this enterprise
edition for uh local checkin or another
option is to use demo autocommerce.
Oops.
Okay, this is the one.
Okay, the next question.
Does it have a builtin currency rate
sync with external services? Out of the
box, there is no uh built-in currency
rates uh synchronizations with external
services. Yeah, you may because the
reason for that is those rates are
introduced there just to have some to
store the relation between base currency
and um and those additional currencies
they are those rates exist in a system
in a database in a back office and it's
up to you to decide how to use it uh in
orcommerce storefront or back office
they are not used just store it that you
may uh use it u for your needs within
your customization.
The next question uh how to make custom
product attribute support translations
custom product attribute support
translation. Okay. So this is uh the
topic uh related to product attributes
support translation.
Let me close this thing.
Product attributes.
So if you are creating
you are not
you have it the field type
and that's it. Okay. And what do we
have? Okay. Whenever we have created
label
Mhm.
So you would need to So the idea is to
my understanding you have an attribute
you are displaying that attribute on a
product details page and you would like
to have it displayed not uh like this uh
brand uh but already translated. Uh so
we I have checked uh there is no
possibility for that. What how I would
achieve that? I would uh introduce a
translation key which will be built uh
based on
uh based on attribute uh code
um and have this translation
uh defined here.
So system
one second
I will switch to global organization.
Uh so here we have uh translations uh
localization translations
and so then you will you could manage
actually those translations. So imagine
you will have a
uh a key translation key like let's say
oro product then uh product uh uh
attribute code let's say brand or color
and then label and for that you will
have a translation
uh then you would need you could then
specify this translation for different
languages like English uh
uh Chinese whatever and then use it uh
uh in your template just uh instead of
customize the template and instead of
providing uh
brand uh just list u
but wait uh it should be already it
should be already added as uh as
translatable values. Uh
yep, it should be uh so these values
this these labels should already be um
added as translatable keys and uh so
defining translation for other for the
same key for but for other language you
should have it uh already translated.
Yeah, I recollected. So if you go to
so whenever you are introducing a new
um a new entity field or attribute uh
then you would need to specify a
translation for that um uh for that
attribute in a messages YAML uh file.
Yes. Uh no I mean um we have name we
have name translated into different
languages. I'd like to have second name
for example for product
uh features attribute uh so I can put
the translation.
So uh just uh to clarify so you would
like to have this not is featured right?
But let's actually quickly check. Uh
no no uh example example we have
description translated into different
languages.
Okay.
I'd like to have second description
translated into different languages.
Mhm. Let's go quickly and check to
product uh product.
Uh let's pick up uh this product
addit.
So okay, we have this short description.
It is localizable and
it could be translated. Uh you can
specify translation for this another
value for another language. And we have
this uh long description or just
description uh which is also localizable
value and you can not inherit but use a
custom uh translation. Will it work or
you are checking?
Yeah. But when I try to create a new
attribute
there is no translations like this.
I see. So with that you would need to
create a localizable
uh localizable u value uh localizable
field
uh
let's
check quickly
product uh attributes
uh not price but uh product
product attributes. Okay. Create
attribute.
I will pick up
other description
with the underscore.
Okay. And here we would need to add uh
many to many many probably many to many
many to one. Okay. Let's pick up many to
many relation
and
localizable
like this one localization uh I
local uh localizable pullback value.
Okay. Birectional no let it be string
string and string
and I will save.
I will update schema.
it will take same time. So with that you
will have an attribute with a relation
to localizable value.
Thank you.
So let's wait but I'm pretty sure this
is the how it could be achieved.
Uh okay the next question uh which
attributes are available for price
rules. So for price rules I available uh
price attributes but also I suppose uh
so we can
okay schema updated uh product
uh let's check previous
case we were talking edit
um
description
uh what we were introducing
uh we have not added it to product
family. So remember after you have
created a product uh attribute you would
need to add it to the product family. So
once you will create add to product
family it will be here and so it should
be okay let's quickly do it.
Uh default
addit
uh I will put to general
uh what was that other description save
okay default family products
um
product family
default
oops
default update
Okay, let's pick up this one. Add it.
Do we have it in a short description?
Other description here. Add
uh yeah, this is some localized fallback
value. This is not it.
Um these are the values which already
exist in a database.
Um so I would need to check uh what kind
of relation uh need to be set up for
localizable uh uh for localizable
fields. I will check
uh but yeah for that you would need to
use this uh some kind of relation. Yeah,
the same like uh it is done for name.
For example,
there is a button you can click
from what?
Name attribute. You can click on name.
Yeah, but remember this name attribute.
This is a a separate entity uh that is
used for the product name which is
called product name which is also like
reusing localizable fallback value. Uh
but uh yeah this is a separate u value
the separate entity used. So you would
need
uh yeah probably you could reuse this
entity for
uh for other product attributes like
reuse product uh uh
product name uh localizable value just
use as a relation to your new attribute.
So here we have specified as target
entity localized fallback but in our
case I guess we should have and actually
we can check in examples here for short
description but these are also using
like a separate uh entities Uh uh
uh I'm not able to to edit
a name.
Yeah, also not able to to to edit these
fields
product attributes.
Okay. So here we can find
uh this is a system relation. Yeah, it
doesn't demonstrate you to what I would
need to check uh separately what kind of
relation you would need to to introduce
for this localizable uh uh values. Okay.
System relation.
Yeah, we can view it tomorrow maybe.
Mhm. Sure. Sure. Yeah. I will check it
uh later. So uh the next question was uh
how to make custom product attributes
support translation we did it which
attributes available for price rule. So
all uh price uh attributes are available
but we may also check uh here
um where we were on second.
Okay. Price list
chicks.
Mhm.
Or rules, right?
Especially for price uh for price rules.
Okay. If I go to product
uh so yeah
only attri uh price attributes are
available here and also category which
is not an attribute but rather a
relation which is exposed. If these
things are not enough uh in your case uh
then it will be a customization to uh
introduce other uh relations which will
be available for calculation. But right
now relation to category plus uh this uh
price attributes.
Okay. The next can the price rules be
applied over another rules? Uh so if you
have already a price list uh like this
one uh generated
this one we have a price list generated
on top of uh default it is generated
based on some rules. You can easily
introduce another price list which will
be generated on top of this one. it will
be simply picking up uh uh picking up um
prices and recalculated based on
generated here.
So yes, you can just continue like using
this example. We can build another one
uh which will be on top of default plus
10 percentage.
Okay, that's it um for now with the
questions. So let's make a 10 minutes uh
20 sorry 20 minutes break and we will
continue with the uh price calculations
uh especially using prices
uh how set up them how they are set up
on different levels uh how fallbacks for
the prices used what kind of strategies
uh we have to define the final price
yeah we'll continue after uh 20 minutes.
See you in 20 minutes.
Okay,
I am here.
Thank you.
Thanks. So, let's continue then. So we
have checked uh just to recap we have
checked how prices could be created and
they are actually created based on the
uh on some according to some price list.
Uh having a price list does not mean
that uh the prices are already taken
into account for the storefront. Uh so
for them to be
uh to be available they should be the
price list should be assigned and there
are uh several levels where the price
list could be assigned. It could be
assigned on the customer level customer
group website and global configuration
level. Uh let's uh start with the global
configuration level.
I will close these things.
Mhm. system configuration
and within a price list uh prices
uh okay so we have a prices section
pricing section and here we have a
default price list uh uh which specifies
that uh globally on a global
configuration we are taking into account
uh this default price list and we can
have a collection of price lists
assigned on global configuration level.
There are no fallbacks. So like this is
a top level uh settings for the price
list. Um yep. So and we have the ability
to specify the collection of them plus
to set the priority which should be
taken um of with the first priority and
with the second and so on.
Um okay this is option number one where
price list could be assigned
but uh depending on your needs maybe you
would like to have like some specific uh
prices uh uh for the websites. So for
that you would need to go to websites
and um
uh let's go here edit
uh so on a website addedit page uh we
have the ability to specify uh what kind
of uh prices
list to use. Um right here we do see
that um our default website it
additionally to the global configuration
level to the global uh globally defined
u default prices. It additionally uses
this um two price list and again we can
specify a collection of them. Plus
there is an ability to set a fallback uh
for the price list whether we would like
to uh to merge and to
uh to take into account global
configuration price list or not. So
specifying it current website only uh
which will it will mean that for the
default website we will use only those
prices which are defined here on this u
on this level on the website level and
do not take um into consideration prices
from the uh global configuration. So
this is second level where prices could
be assigned.
I will uh remove them.
Uh the next thing is customer group.
Uh so if you go to one of the customer
groups uh all customers
go to addit
and here we have a price list section uh
with an ability to specify price list u
depending per customer group but
depending on a website. So imagine we
have a default website and uh this c all
customers they used not only this group
for the default website but also for the
US, Australia and other websites. So you
can specify uh what kind of u uh prices
to use according to specific uh to
specific website and it also gives an
ability to specify a collection plus the
fallback. Uh remember what for the
website we have adds a fallback uh
global configuration while for the
customer group it like listens or checks
uh customers checks prices from uh from
upper level which is a website level and
specifying current customer group only
will use only prices for the uh which
are listed here and uh disregard those
from from the website or from the global
configuration level.
Okay. And the last level where
price list could be assigned is customer
level. So imagine we have a company A
and within a company A we would like to
specify some specific uh prices and here
is where they are uh provided on the
customer edit page and again uh users of
uh customer company A they might uh
belong to different websites that's why
we give the ability to define a list of
price list depending on the website uh
users will be using. And again the
fallback uh with the fallback we can
specify either to break and keep uh take
into account um uh from customer group
and upper levels price list or stay just
on simply on this level uh for the
customer um
prices. this one and disregard others.
So this how uh price list fallbacks
and actually this is demonstrated here.
So whenever
prices are uh found on the customer
level they are picked up missing they
are also merged with the customer group
level missing
used
taken from the website level and the
last level is global and it's up to you
to decide at what level to stop uh
taking prices uh price list into
account.
Maybe for some specific you would not
like to uh take prices from the global
level but just simply stop on this level
and uh within a fallback you can uh set
it up.
Okay, let's continue. So with the global
we have a configuration with no
fallbacks. On a price list we have um
uh this is specified on a price list on
a website edit page and there are a
fallbacks uh to configuration or current
website only. Uh same for the customer
group
uh but depending on different websites
and same for the uh customer price list
similar to the customer group.
Okay. Now let me demonstrate how it
works uh uh how it works. Okay. I will
uh make
um I will remove
uh prices. I have removed prices.
Remember on the website level we do not
have any price list. I have removed on
the customer level and on a customer
group we do not have price list uh uh as
well. So no price list.
Okay. Now let's so right now we are
using only default website uh default
price list.
Let's check uh whether it works. I will
close all this not needed uh pages.
Open storefront and we will check
whether we have at least some prices.
Okay.
So we do have
Now let's say I would like to um uh so
these are the prices which are taken
from the default price list. It is
assigned on a global uh configuration
and just to verify that it is as I am
just
uh thinking
I will pick up the full price list. I
will search for uh for this product for
the the currency USD
and we have this prices
uh 95 90 85.
Okay, this is it. So we are fine. Now
let's uh
add another price list uh with some
specific prices for this product.
I will pick up uh I will go to price
list.
Create new price list. Let it be simply
price list for this certain product. Uh
though it is uh like obvious not
recommended to create price list for
single products. Better to have like
prices for for multiple uh uh products.
Okay. I will uh simply
uh create it, make it active
and add manually
uh price for this for this product for
the quantity one
and let it be
let it be 94.
94. Okay, I will save the changes. And
this is item, right? unit of measure
right. Okay, I will save. I have applied
list for single uh
uh for single product. Now if I refresh
uh this page,
nothing changed because uh the price
list I just created it was it was not
assigned to any levels uh that we have.
Okay, let me go to the customer customer
uh to customer groups.
Okay, I will um
pick up Okay, let me create uh a new
customer group test customer group and
assign
uh company A to this customer group and
also assign this uh
new price list.
So now I have test customer group. This
test customer group contains company A
company and it has u additional uh price
list um enabled with a fallback to the
website level and this price list
contains one single uh one single price
u 94 this product. Now uh let me refresh
the page
and we do see the change. So the price
from 95 changed to 94 cuz uh we are
right now using u a price list uh not
only from the global configuration but
we are also using a price list from the
uh default uh from the customer group
level and on the customer group we have
a price 94 for this particular product
and by the way whenever I have I did uh
the change yeah the prices uh
recalculated and the final price was
provided for this certain quantity. Now
let's check how uh alls are working. If
I go and
edit
the test uh customer group um price list
settings and would like to
uh use only price list which I defined
on this level and do not take into
account those from the upper level. So I
am specifying fallback just uh to stay
on the current customer group only for
the default website. I will save the
changes.
Uh I will refresh the page.
The prices uh for this particular
product were not kind of changed. But if
you look to the tire prices, they we we
have only the price for the uh for
quantity equal to one and we do not have
any other prices. And the reason for
that is that we are using uh this price
list. We are not using uh price list
from upper levels website or global
configuration. And uh this um uh price
list it contains only price for single
product. So this is how
we can uh
uh we can have uh this price list
defined.
Okay, let's
and decide and actually used the
fallbacks used for for for them. Okay,
now let me continue
and for demonstration purposes create
another price list.
Uh check
uh price list
I will create. So this one was with the
price addit
the price 94 right
uh 94 USD just
uh to be clear what kind of uh I will
create another price list
let's actually use uh duplicate uh
functionality right we have it okay I
have duplicated after duplicate it is
automatically marked as disabled. I will
go and add it. Uh but I will have like
lower uh value
one.
Okay, I will make it active. Save
changes
and edit this uh price to have 93
93.
Okay.
And I will assign this price list on a
customer level.
So imagine I would like uh to for some
particular customer to make some
discount and uh have price less than uh
than other users uh have. So I will pick
up uh the same
um
company A user I was just using being um
logged into the storefront. This is
company A. It belongs to test customer
group and I will add it and add a price
list.
Okay, with the 93 three and have a
fallback to the customer group. I will
save the changes. So what we have now?
We have now that we have prices on a
global configuration level. We have
prices on the
on the customer group level. Here is the
price list. Uh by the way, let me uh
change
uh the fallback
the website as well.
And we have a price list on a customer
level.
And here it is.
This is the one with the $93 US.
And now let's refresh
the page. And we see the the that um
prices now are taken uh from the um from
the uh customer from the customer level
and we have 93.
So actually um prices from the customer
level are also taken into account. um
take
using the fallback uh strategies uh and
uh yeah as we have there 93 93 is
displayed here.
uh the strategy by which uh uh prices
are final prices are
uh calculated and presented to the end
user is defined using so-called price
strategy and price strategy
system configuration is defined in
system configuration I will go to
pricing the pricing section once again
here is a pricing section
and here we have uh price selection
strategy. So strategy which uh defines
how to select prices if they are uh
defined uh if we have similar for
similar products prices on different
levels. And here we have a pricing
strategy minimal which means that on uh
it doesn't matter on which level we have
prices for the uh for the for the
product but the minimal uh price will be
taken uh as the final price. So remember
here we have 94 uh 95. So the minimal
price was taken for that product.
uh
and to demonstrate that. So if I change
um and reassign
for company A
I will specify 94
but for test customer I will specify 93.
Save changes.
So now I have on a customer on a
customer group I have 93 on a customer I
have um
here 94 here 93 I will refresh the page
I will still have 93 because no matter
on what level we have the price uh the
lowest price is taken as a final price.
Okay. So what we can do we can do is we
can change this uh price and strategy
and we have another one which is called
merge by priority.
Okay I will change uh and save settings.
Uh what this uh uh strategy means? It
means that we will be taking not minimal
uh for the final prices not minimal
prices but the prices which will which
are on a uh uh on a higher level this
like in this diagram on a higher level
will be uh taken um at the priority uh
first then if they are not uh found they
will be taken from from this level but
um uh yeah but as the main prices will
be taken from here. Remember on a
customer level we have uh like 90 uh
sorry 94
right and on a uh customer group 93
customer has like higher priority
that's why changing the configuration to
measure by priority now we should have
for the same company a customer we
should have prices 94 let's refresh
and we have 94
because uh
customer prices has higher priority.
That's why they are taken first no
matter whether they are lower or not.
And uh by the way uh we can specify this
uh it also it is also applied not only
on different levels of uh of the
entities like customer group or customer
but it is also applied uh when we have
uh several price listed within the same
level. So from the upper uh price list
uh prices will be taken first uh having
this uh mesh by priority uh strategy.
And uh as you uh may notice we have um
I will switch uh to this one.
After we have changed uh and set merge
by priority we have uh
additional option appeared here whether
merge allowed or not. So let's go to the
company a price list. Uh here we also
have merge allowed or not. I will uh uh
disable uh this u option and save the
changes. With that I am saying that I
would like to pick up prices uh from the
company A uh price list this one and I
am not allowed to merge uh with other
tire prices from other price lists like
I would like to pick up from unit units
and quantities that are here in this
price list and would not like to take u
uh other quantities for the same
products. It's not allowing to merge
with other quantities from from other
price list. Okay, I will refresh the
page.
And now it seems like nothing changed.
But if I go to Oops. Um
94.
Uh one second.
Yep. That is I do not have consumers.
They were stopped.
Okay. The prices are recalculated
and now we are fine. So now we have
prices for other products. We have price
for this product uh which is uh the
price is defined on the customer level
here
on the customer 94.
But we have specified that we are not
allowing to merge uh its prices uh with
other uh quantities. That's why this uh
this product has uh only prices for
quantity equal to one and do not have
prices for other quantities which is
specified on a default price list.
Okay, let me uh check uh what we have in
slides.
So just keep in mind we have uh several
levels
depending on uh levels we can specify
some specific uh prices. If we are using
measure by uh um minimal prices strategy
minimal then simply minimal price is
taken no matter on what level we have a
priceless. If we have a merge by uh
priority then the customer
then with a higher priority level uh
prices will be taken first.
Okay. And here we have uh this uh price
and strategy. So they are defined in a
system configurations and by default uh
minimal is enabled but you can uh change
to to the merge by priority and
especially taking into
deciding whether to use merge allowed or
not.
Um so whenever we have uh this prices u
set up on different levels uh in the
final result we uh like we could have
like
several uh uh price list right on
different levels but at the final u
result is having a combined so-called
combined price list which has all the
combination uh which holds the
combinations of the price list taken in
uh taking prices from different levels
and uh so it is prepared beforehand. So
whenever we are performing some changes
uh on the price list the combined price
list is uh recalculated and uh we do
have like this final prices. So think
about combined prices as a final prices
which are then visible on a storefront.
uh so they are calculated in the
background. Uh this is done for
performance reasons just to uh not to do
this recalcul to do this calculation
when we uh navigating the storefront but
have them already prepared and just to
provide um depending on what customer or
what customer group or what website we
are using.
Um yeah and this combined price list
actually uh contains or contains of the
or aggregates prices from the chain we
have. For instance, if we the combined
prices for this uh for this uh uh
company A uh user, it contains prices
from the chain. this one from this level
uh from the uh test uh customer group
level plus global configuration level
and uh yeah we have checked that they
their calculations and preparing this
combined prices it is performed
automatically once the immediately once
the change is
uh done on on the price level on the
price list some assignment But if you
would like to recalculate uh
specifically using command line
interface, you have this command to do
that with a scheduled. It will means
that a message will be put to the queue
and recalculation will be performed
through the message queue. And yeah
actually this are the com think about
combined prices as those which are
displayed uh uh on the storefront
and uh
like we have um several entities which
are responsible for the price list u and
uh like price um they are starting with
the price list uh product price and so
on and uh for the combined those
recalculated we have like similar
uh duplicated entities but they are
starting with a combined. So we we will
have combined price list, combined uh uh
prices and so on.
Let me check. Oops.
I will open quickly and demonstrate.
Okay. So,
um
I will navigate. So, all of that u
pricing engine is located in a uh
commerce uh pricing bundle.
And here are the entities that I was
just referring to. So for the regular uh
price list,
we have this price list for the
fallbacks entities which for the
schedules for price list relation to the
customer, customer group and so on. And
similar we have uh the entities which
are responsible for storing final uh
final results or final prices and they
are started with a combined combined
price list to customer to to website uh
schedules should be also activation
rules like that.
Mhm.
Uh we have uh uh a new feature which is
uh uh coming soon which will be
available in 5.6 version. So now we have
like 5 uh 1.5 but within the sixth uh
version we will have uh
an ability to uh check uh price
calculation details in a back office. So
yeah, I was demonstrating it for you
like these examples going here and there
checking and then we went to the
storefront and checked final prices and
you might have like a complex setup
different levels plus taking into
account some activation or schedules um
for the price list. So these are all uh
is crucial for the final prices and for
that was introduced this uh price
calculation details section. I will uh
actually
open it here. Uh though the
documentation is already available but
uh this version will be released just
maybe tomorrow maybe the day after
tomorrow. And uh so you we will have the
course would need to enable permissions.
And here we will have a grid which will
uh list uh all possible prices for the
products depending on a on a currency.
Uh plus we have a uh section which
describes how those prices were
calculated. So we can go to uh to these
tool tips and they will uh demonstrate
where they were taken for what period
and so on. Yeah. So it will help a lot
if you have some complex setup
uh and you would like to know
specifically how those prices are
calculated and the final one brought to
the end user.
So I thought that it will be already
available for this training but uh sorry
it is not like need to wait a couple of
days so then I would demonstrate it.
Okay. So uh we might have like a complex
setup um different uh price lists uh on
different levels with the fallbacks uh
and so on. On the other hand side in
some cases
clients that are using autoo auto or
commerce they do not have such complex
uh prices for instance they using u some
prices from the external system some ERP
system let's say and u this is like u
this could be presented as a plain uh
database records u so with that we can
enable this so-called flat pricing
But uh the limitation is we should have
u only one single uh price list assigned
to the uh uh to the website customer
customer group level and
computations that I was just mentioning
about this uh combined price list they
will not uh take place. Uh so simply the
prices will be uh provided from the from
that u from the prices list which is
assigned on on one of the levels which
are listed here. Uh so they are fetched
directly without any computation and
this is actual for the small scale
businesses uh especially yeah when the
prices are managed in a third party
system for instance and they are just
provided via API or some other uh
connector to the uh orcommerce and you
have just simply
one price list let's say u and no um uh
no strategies no stuff for for merging
them from different levels. Uh in order
to
switch between uh different between this
so-called complex uh pricing which we
were describing here in the first uh
section
and flat uh pricing. So we have a
console command for that and you would
need to run it. Uh so this one switch
price and storage and we specify what
kind of storage it should be either flat
or uh combined
and uh yeah and under the hood the the
the change the settings will be uh will
be applied. So these settings actually
will will be stored and from that you
will use like flat
flat prices but not combined one.
Actually if the change is uh done then
you would need to recalculate not
recalculate reindex products to reflect
uh these prices uh in the uh in the
storefront.
So for the prices to be in index.
Okay. And a couple of uh finalizing this
uh topic a couple of u uh hints uh
related to best practices. So
uh if you have like a price list uh try
to use uh a fallbacks u fallback
mechanism and uh just not to copy uh
prices across different price list just
uh specify it in one place use fallback
and only override uh uh override uh
prices on the next level uh using this
fallback uh um phobic
logic.
Uh it is not recommended to create uh
separate price list uh for one uh single
product. Uh uh just use uh like uh
combine all all products uh like
together uh and just prepare a
price list for for a set of products. So
the example I was just demonstrated is
uh when I created uh a price list for
for a single product. This is a bad
example. So do not do it. Just use a
price list for a set of uh
prices for per set of products
and uh try to minimize number of price
lists you have in a system. So think
ahead uh uh whether you how many prices
you should have in a system uh how they
should be uh set up those fallbacks and
especially uh the the strategy to use
either minimal or merge by priority
and choose this yeah strategy at the
very beginning because if you do the
change when you are already running the
business it will take for you uh some
time to do this reset plus uh do
recalculation
uh to have uh combined prices plus uh
reindex products to have prices uh uh on
the storefront actual
and we have uh some concepts uh listed
documentation.
Let me check whether I have missed
something
uh or not.
Yeah, most of the things we have already
went through.
Yeah, it simply also explains uh those
parts we went through uh how the
strategies works with real examples uh
depending on setup u uh prices on
different levels.
Okay. So now let's switch to the Q&A se
uh section.
So the first question curious what
happens if there is no uh there is no
price reset no fallbacks will there
simply not be price on the front end yes
that's true you will have no priceless
at the on the front end and this is
something we were I was demonstrated
when I just uh made a fallback uh here
um specify the fallback to stop on a
current customer group. So we didn't
have any prices for all the products
except the one which was listed in this
price list.
Can we hide price for guests? Uh you can
hide price for guests by uh
uh but that will be not kind of hiding
prices for guests but rather
u not having prices for guests at all.
Right? Uh for that we can use uh
customer group uh
nonificated visitors right we can go and
add it and specify that we would like to
use a price list uh not from the website
uh as a fallback but on the cast current
customer group only. And here we have no
prices. Okay. Save the changes.
Uh and now let me check is okay.
Now if I go to the let's check here all
is fine. If I log out
search for the products price not
available price not available. So that's
how we can uh restrict or we can have no
prices for the guest users.
uh
the option to hide maybe this one price
not available. Uh I don't think we have
this option to for the guest users.
Let's check guest
uh guests.
So I am thinking whether we have a
configuration option just simply not to
to display
uh so we don't have so that would be a
customization to hide this uh price not
available for the guest users
uh do we have any option for importing
price list via API?
Uh so while talking about price list I
mentioned that we have this option
uh okay to import
oops uh so we have a price list to
import using import file right we
specify the source and import them uh
from the API standpoint uh duplicate
we have this admin
API
document mentation
take.
So we have an API endpoints which will
allow us first of all to create a price
list. Um here we have like a post u to
update the price list some patch uh
actions. We also have um the ability to
specify schedules for the price list
also endpoints
uh to assign price list to the customer
groups um and product prices also we can
specify we can assign product prices to
the prices. to answer any questions. We
do have API endpoints uh for that. Uh
what uh I have faced with is uh reusing
uh this um import logic
to uh uh to import prices uh like
automatically using some um
so instead of importing via API like one
by one or in batches but simply reusing
this u
this functionality. So you are providing
a
uh introducing additional uh scheduled
task uh here schedule task within that
schedule task you are reusing uh this
import job and you are just specifying
from what resource to take the CSV file
and as a resource uh some FTP uh FTP uh
server folder was used for that purpose
and with that on a daily basis prices
were lowered and it was like much more
from performance standpoint more
convenient for the for the server to
handle those uh prices. Not just hitting
the end points uh this one we have uh
but simply taking one uh file and
processing it.
I assume a product without a price
cannot be added to cart and order it.
Yes. Mhm. So if you have uh uh if you
sign in
actually you would be able to add it to
the uh shopping uh list. Uh product
could be added to the shopping list
without price but ordering it will not
be allowed.
Uh so going through the checkout in the
checkout it will be removed.
uh product without uh price
uh is there back orders? Can the price
uh be changed in that case? Uh so there
is uh uh back orders functionality
uh we will cover it in the inventory
uh topics. Uh this is related to
inventory and u can the price be changed
in that case. Uh so you mean that uh we
have no
uh products available in a warehouse and
depending on it the price is changed. Am
I correct
the price should be changed to some
maybe higher
Victor?
Can you clarify?
Yes. Sorry. Uh
uh what my question was is about the
beorders.
Mhm.
So I I'm asking if if there is beorders
and if there is beorders so probably
price could be changed later. So when
the beorder is available the price can
be changed at higher uh price. So in
this case it can be changed somehow.
However it's related to the order
probably.
Yes, that's I will demonstrate what we
have for the back orders in the
inventory topic. But uh this part that
you were just describing related to the
prices.
My my question then for the second part
is like uh can we change the price in
the order if it's needed by the uh
in the order?
Mhm. Okay. In the order. Yes. The price.
So whenever we have an order we can uh
go to um orders.
Um so these are the all orders which are
still open
and navigateing to the edit
we are able to change the price to
override with some uh uh with the one
that you would like to to set for this
for this order.
Okay, that work. Thank you. Mhm.
Uh the next question uh uh do we have an
option uh for turn on catalog mode front
end uh covers a catalog view only means
no price no add to cart no check out. Uh
okay we are turning on catalog mode.
Uh and so we should have just simply a
catalog. No price, no add toart, no
check out.
Uh
I don't think we it could be organized
to actually it could not be organized
via some simple uh changing some option.
Uh as I demonstrated here, we have uh
we have this um
maybe for the for the guest users if uh
this is meant for the guest users. So
the guest users we can limit uh their uh
capabilities and do not allow to go to
the to do not allow to add uh product to
the shopping list to go through the
checkout. Uh but that will be applied
only for the guest users only. Uh like
here we have some sort of catalog right
uh here for the guest. Uh no ability to
add to cart. If you go to the view page,
uh it actually does not show anything.
Okay, this one shows u add to new. Ah,
just a second. I was one second. I will
uh log out. So, view details.
Okay, just demonstrating the details of
the product. That's no ability to add to
cart, but this could be uh achieved for
the guest users. uh uh this limitations
uh probably could be reused if you would
like to have for other types of users it
could be reused so these limitations
could be exposed to uh to to some maybe
customer
group
have I answered uh the question or not
uh yes partially I think uh fine. But uh
we have couple of enterprise customers
which they they do not sell their
products online. They actually u direct
the traffic to their in in store uh in
person. So they just um uh show their
products for demonstration purpose with
all the details. So on th those case we
want to hide those information no
pricing and add toart check out just a
product details
uh with all the custom attributes. So
this is what we I was thinking if we
have such options that would be great.
Yeah. So
it could be easily achieved. Uh so using
uh some management console we do not
have such option uh just to easily turn
on but we can use uh layout updates uh
remember we were talking about them uh
yesterday and we can check what kind of
uh block is responsible for uh for
rendering this piece right with the u
price uh not available with the price
section and with the add to cart this
part with the prices and add to certain
list and We can simply u include in a
layout update to remove this uh this
block and that's it. And we can set uh
in what cases we should remove this
block or all the data grids uh
storefront data grids or just uh for uh
for a particular page uh whatever. So I
would go uh that approach. So you will
have like a full control what you are
removing and uh specifying in what
conditions uh for what conditions to
remove that block.
Okay.
So for example if uh store owner is on
holiday or vacation or they do not want
to proceed or accept any orders but they
also do not want to put their side on
maintenance mode. just keep running
their store and just giving purpose. No,
do not accept the order. Is there such
options? We could vacation more or
something.
No, no, out of the box there is no such
uh capability.
Uh maybe we could check I could check in
the extensions but this is like not I
suppose not so widely used at least they
have it. Mhm. Got it. Okay.
Okay. The next question, uh, does it
update the price of the product which is
already in the cart if it was updated?
Yes. Uh, in a cart. Yes. Mhm. It should
uh already uh update the product. Uh so
in a cart uh in a shopping list uh there
is uh uh if you have a product in a
shopping list uh the price will still uh
refer to the one which is taken from the
from the price list. If we start the
checkout uh if I'm not mistaken yeah in
a checkout it should already yeah check
out stories have a a value for storing
uh a price price value. That's why
whenever you are starting a check out,
you're kind of freezing the price and
continuing a check out with that with
that price because check out line items
they uh has their value for the price.
Okay.
But we can easily verify it
uh using back office setup. And uh
Yeah, remember we were changing this
price and uh for this um uh product uh
ah sorry this is not it we were changing
for what? Yeah, for 94 uh this one for
this product. So we were changing the
product price uh like multiple times and
it reflects here the the final price uh
the last price we have. But if you go to
the checkout then it should be stored on
the
on the check out line item level.
Okay that's it. uh with the questions to
what I see
uh before we go to the uh and have a
break. Let me check uh what we have for
the
exercises
which you recommend to go through.
Okay.
Uh so
just be free I will
demonstrate what we have for the
products and master catalog. I have not
u provided an exercise. So this is the
one which uh we recommend to to pass. Uh
so just a simple case to using master
catalog
for building a menu. This is something
I've already demonstrated, but you could
do it on your own. Introducing some
additional category in a master catalog
and adding a product there, verifying is
it displayed in a storefront or not.
Pretty straightforward. Another uh
another thing is
which we recommend is related to prices.
with the prices I do understand that it
is more more complex uh thing and that's
why it is called so practice uh
functional practice section session so
you would need to it's actually
pretty the same that uh I did you during
demonstration so with that would need to
create some uh additional customer group
in my case it was test customer then uh
create some price list which is some
percentage within some percentage
discount. Assigning that price list,
checking how fallback works in a
storefront while you have assigned this
price list and uh yeah and some optional
stuff like u creating a price list based
on different uh
uh different setup.
I will provide uh slides within the
exercises uh via email.
Okay. Then let's make a 10 minutes break
and continue with the last uh topic we
have for today. This is uh promotions
and discounts. So see you in 10 minutes.
Continue.
Okay, the next topic is uh promotions
and discounts.
Okay, here is uh the slides
related to it. I will close others. So
we have a products, we have uh prices
specified for those products and it's up
to us to decide either to
uh provide some uh lower prices for uh
for some specific customer groups. Or we
can use uh promotions and discounts to
uh have uh cheaper prices for certain
products and uh uh depending on some
conditions. So this is actually uh this
promotions uh uh marketing tool which
brings uh uh offering uh some discounts
uh depending on some uh specific
conditions when they are met and they
are used for motivating our buyers to
buy more and repeat their purchases uh
from time to time.
Um
uh the promotions uh they are applying
uh specific uh some special prices while
discounts they u uh decrease uh the
price uh that user was seen before.
going through the uh to the shopping
list and having uh some conditions uh
met uh for the uh for the promotion and
for the discounts then the prices are uh
are decreased and we have like a special
uh
thing called coupons
which may which also may be used uh for
applying promotions.
Okay, let's uh start with the promotions
and um
I will open uh back office and
demonstrate from there.
So the promotion itself this is an
entity which contains of a name um sort
order. So we might have u plenty of
promotions and we would need to decide
which promotion uh has higher pri
priority or lower priority. The
promotions should be enabled or
disabled. Again, if you are drafting
some promotions, keep them inactive or
disabled once uh they should be applied
to the storefront uh enable them. We
have an option for stopping uh further
uh rule processing of the promotions
which means when we have like one
promotion that already met uh and
stopping uh processing other promotions
will mean that other promotions will not
be taken into account. And uh there are
u an options to specify in what cases
the promotion should trigger either only
by conditions or uh taking into account
conditions plus uh uh plus discounts
sorry plus coupons
and uh each promotion has some discount
options. Let's go to the back office.
Uh I will pick up uh so sale uh no this
is under marketing
uh yep so under marketing we have this
promotion section
and promotions which include promotions
and coupons. Let's go one by one. Uh so
within the promotions we have a list of
all promotions we have in the system
right now and some basic information
regarding them. the name um uh how they
should be uh triggered or whether they
have been already triggered or not
enabled or disabled. Right now all
promotions are disabled. So let's go and
create a promotion for the promotion. We
would need to specify uh some
okay
let's put discount test.
Okay, we will have
this promotion called test as discount.
We will specify a sort order. So
remember we can have multiple
promotions. We will make it enabled.
The flag uh which indicates if the
promotion is met whether we should uh
continue checking other promotions. Uh
let's keep it uh let's skip it for now.
And uh the another field which indicates
when the promotion should be triggered
by conditions only or uh conditions plus
coupons. We will stay with the
conditions and here are the uh discounts
options. So within the discount options
we might we have few types of discounts
that could be applied within the
promotion we are just creating. And
these are order total order line item by
X get Y and shipping uh discount. We
will check them a bit later. Uh then we
also have uh schedules. So remember
similar we had for the price list. We
were able to specify in what period the
price list should be active. Uh and same
we have for the promotion. So they might
be enabled for
uh for the whole period. Um uh while we
can also uh enable for a certain period
of time with then activate and
deactivate fields. They are also
optional fields and schedules also uh
they are also we can specify a
collection of of these periods uh for
the promotion.
Okay.
And
we can also limit uh
uh limit uh to in what cases uh the
promotion should be applied. um just not
based on some uh discount uh options
which are listed here but also depending
on some restrictions uh for the for some
specific website customer or customer
group uh assign to them. So they will in
this case just assign it to some
customer company A which we are using
during demonstration. we will uh only
restrict or allow uh this promotion only
for company A or we can use uh an
expression language to uh specify
uh in what cases uh this promotion
should be applied. We will check it as
well. And we have a list u uh a section
to specify uh what items this promotion
uh should be applied. We will check it
as well. And the last thing is how what
should be the label for the for the
promotion we are we are creating.
So like these are the basic description
of what promotion entity looks like and
the main idea is here within this
discount options. Let me switch back to
slides. And within the discount options,
we have this u four types. Uh
but uh as usually you are not limited
with those which are listed here. You
can also introduce your own type and
this is something our uh partners were
already doing or practicing with
introducing their own discounts.
What would be needed to be done is to
follow this discount interface.
By the way, we have a documentation for
that. Uh so the discount interface uh
provides ability to have uh
discounts of
few types amount 10%. We will check it
in a back office in a moment. And there
should be also a discount factory which
should know about uh those uh types uh
of uh discounts uh which should be
available in the back office. So right
now we have four types I've just
mentioned all the line item bikes get Y
shipping and all of them they are added
as a supported types for the discount
factory. So this is something you would
need to introduce
uh if you will be adding your own uh
discount uh type.
Okay, let's uh switch to discount uh
called order type and start uh checking
how it works. So first of all it works
uh depending on a uh on on a type uh
whether we u will be providing some
fixed amount or uh some amount which
will depend on a percentage and some
discount value. Okay, let's go to to
promotion. We've just been here. I will
pick up order total the first one. And
uh here are the types uh which uh
discount option uh
uh might have uh fixed amount or
percentage.
And within a percentage we will have to
specify the percentage uh value within a
uh uh fixed amount some uh discount
value and specifically depending on a
currency
uh
on the website currency. So keep in mind
that this is one of the uh conditions uh
which will be taken uh into account to
match the promotion we are creating.
Okay, let's keep fixed amount. Let's put
10.
Uh, let's put 10.
And let's pick up uh those products we
would like to uh to discount.
It uses actually the same form we've
seen for the web catalog. Uh
specifying the collection of products. I
will pick up field condition. pick up
products
uh product uh ID
again I will specify all the products
but in your case you will have uh
probably some specific
and I will save the changes
okay so I I have created test discount
with the type order type with the type
fixed amount and I should provide a
discount value uh for the whole order
uh
and actually all the products are
included to this uh promotion. Let's go
to the checkout
uh to the shopping list.
Okay, I have some uh shopping list.
Okay, so I am on a shopping list and uh
no matter what kind of products I have
uh in a list quantity uh I am uh
provided automatically
a discount u 10 uh US dollars.
uh if I change the type to
uh percent
and specify the percent like also 10%
save and close
I will refresh the page I will have also
the discount but now it is calculated uh
based on uh some percentage amount like
34 right now for now we are not using
any specific conditions. Uh we are just
uh applying this uh
this promotion just for all the products
uh we have in the system without any
specific uh uh restrictions for the
customer customer group or uh some
expressions. We will check that as well.
Okay, this was first type of promotion
total uh order totals. Let's continue
and check another one.
So the next one is order line item.
Within an order line item uh we also
have the ability to specify based on
what type it should be either fixed
amount or
uh percent. Let's keep percent. Let's
also keep 10. And here we have a
possibility to specify either to uh
apply discount per each uh item or uh
for the whole line items total. Uh let's
keep it for each line item. Uh here we
would need to specify for what quantity
it will match uh it will be used uh unit
of quantity. Uh so if we have products
of uh different uh
uh unit of uh uh of quantity it will be
applied only for the one that is listed
here. Let's pick uh set. Mhm. I will
pick set.
And u this type of discount uh order
line item. It also gives the ability to
specify the maximum quantity of uh how
this uh discount is applied
uh how how many times it could be
applied.
Uh so with that we can limit uh number
of applied times. Okay. I will still
keep using all the products. I will save
the changes.
So we have order line item for the set
uh unit of quantity and uh 10
percentage. I will refresh the page.
Okay. So now we have one product uh in a
shopping list which is uh of unit of
measure uh set and for that uh like 10
percentage was applied uh for the for
the whole uh
uh for each line item.
uh for each line item
and here the discount is listed here as
well. If we uh change uh to the fixed
amount so we will have the same uh fixed
amount we've seen uh in the
so now we have a fixed amount or we
should have
uh fixed amount and it is applied per
each uh line item we have in the uh in
the shopping list like we have 10 items
per each uh uh item we have this uh 10
US u discount. So if I add it and apply
discount not per each uh item but for
the line items total. So then no matter
what uh quantity I have uh added here I
will have only 10 uh US dollars. So this
is the difference of applying u the
settings.
Uh let me switch back
to the slides. Check whether
Hey, sorry
question.
Uh can you go back to that screen?
Mhm.
The product it is showing. The second
one is the
out of stock, right?
Mhm.
Yeah, it is out of stock. But uh uh it
it the the discount is not um the
promotion is not applied because uh item
uh we are using a unit of uh measure uh
set here. This product has unit of
measure item. Sorry, this product has
unit of measure item. But we have
created a promotion for the unit of
measure set. This one. So if you go to
the uh promotions uh here we have uh
order item uh discount and it should be
applied only for set uh when we have
product
set absolutely but if you if you go to
the next again back to the shopping page
shopping list page it shows me 330 line
item and it is allowing me to create a
order is it allowed me even though is
out of stock.
Uh it depends. So uh there is a so if I
go and here create an order it will
allow uh but it uh depends on inventory
uh inventory configuration uh we have
for the category or for the product
either either to allow uh to put out of
stock item to the uh
to the order or not.
So but this is managed. Yeah, but this
is managed via this uh uh inventory.
Yeah, understood. Yeah, understood.
That's fine. Yeah.
Okay.
Sounds good. Thank you.
Yeah. And here we have checked that
whenever we go to the checkout, those
discounts they are also transferred to
the checkout and then uh to the order
itself.
Okay. So I was on a on this slide and uh
just for as an example you may refer to
this uh order discount. So if you will
be introducing your own discount you may
refer to the examples we have to the
implementation we have for existing and
actually this is the one which was
responsible for the order discount. just
uh it should actually implement two
methods like uh uh how to calculate the
value uh for the
uh for the entity that was provided
which is shopping list and how that u uh
or maybe line item in in the case using
order line item uh discount. So it
simply calculates and decides whether to
apply this discount or not. So only two
methods and if we go to order line item
the the last one I was just
demonstrated. So we have uh this also
two types of fixed amount and percent um
type of order and item discount we
should specify the discount value. Uh
also uh what matters is to which uh
products to apply and remember we were
applying to all the products we have but
you can limit and for sure you will be
limiting. The most crucial part is not
to forget about unit of quantity. So it
matters uh when a promotion is uh
matched or not. That's why we have this
set and it was uh applied only for
products with a set uh unit of measure.
And uh the last thing we have yeah we
have this maximum quantity uh applied. I
will demonstrate on some other example.
And for the line item discount another
similar
uh discount class is responsible for
that but it has some additional
configuration. And you may see that
calculation differs depending on uh on
the type we might have to apply per each
line item or for the line item total and
uh other for type this discount could be
percent or or amount and so on. So
please refer to it while you will be
introducing your own discounts.
Okay, let's continue and check the next
one. Uh, we have
this discount by X uh Y get uh Y.
Uh, okay.
I will switch back.
Let me actually get rid of this one
and I will pick up this one.
I will add it
and specify by X get Y. So again we have
the ability to specify the type ei the
fixed amount or not as usually the again
this type of discount is also um relies
on the unit of quantity. Let's put set
for the product we have in a shopping
list. And let's buy three and get uh y
uh get two uh
uh let's put
one US dollar and
apply discount to each uh y item
separately. I will not uh add any
limitations for now. And actually let me
pick up
to demonstrate how it works. If I
uh would like to specify for some
specific uh products, I will remove this
u field.
I will add manually and I will add this
uh
this product.
Okay. So I have added one item uh with a
one with the unit of measure set
uh I have set here. So buying X for Y I
would get a discount one and uh it
depends
either to provide discount per each Y
separately or per um X + Y uh total.
Okay. So let me put five here
and actually
um and I will save the changes. What I
missed? Okay. So I have saved the
changes. Uh so I am buying X. If I buy
an X uh for the next uh two um I will
get uh one uh US dollar uh discount uh
for each uh for each Y. Okay. So I have
uh five products. Let me refresh.
So I am kind of purchasing three but
additionally adding two for each extra
for each Y I am uh giving a discount uh
u1 uh US dollar
and if I uh if I
put 10 here
so now I am purchasing like uh six uh
six
uh items and extra o for each uh why I
am provided uh discount uh one US dollar
that's why the discount value is all
okay now I will uh change to x + y total
so now like having uh I will be provided
a discount for uh for x plus y. Uh so
for the five products I will have a
discount one. I will save the changes.
I will refresh. I have 10 products like
two two times uh the discount is
applied. Uh the I am applying for both
uh 3 + 2 uh x + y uh per each
one uh US dollar. That's why we have uh
the discount equal to two let's say and
if I put more like 15 right I will have
a discount three okay and now I have li
I am able also to limit how number of
times to apply uh the discount and for
that we have this field limit number of
fi times let's say I would like to limit
to apply only once
I have saved the changes now uh if I
refresh the page I should the promotion
be applied the discount be applied uh
only uh once and instead of three I
should have one uh US dollar and I have
it. So this is how you can manage um and
set limitation how many times to apply
uh a discount.
Okay, let's continue.
And what we have here, we have here
again the reference to the buy x get y
discount. Um a bit more complex uh
uh taken into account.
This combinations of this setup either
take x + y or only y separately and
depending on uh either this is
percentage or uh percent type or amount
type
just as a difference you might see that
it is a bit more it contains a bit more
logic.
Okay. And um here we have some kind of
explanation how this uh u calculation is
performed depending on a either we are
selecting um each y item separately or x
+ y total
u this is u that I've just u the same
case I've just demonstrated you in a
shopping list and the last type of uh
discount ount is shipping. So shipping
discount is applied uh for the checkout.
So these three types I was just
demonstrated they were applied uh for
the shopping list and then transferred
to the checkout. The values that uh uh
that we have received the values of the
discount while uh shipping uh discount
uh it is applied when we have uh some uh
shipping information and uh shipping
method and shipping method we have
during a checkout.
uh I will demonstrate it. But now let's
go and check how shipping
[Music]
how shipping looks like.
So I will pick up shipping
fixed amount.
Uh so
same as for other types
for other discounts sorry we have the
ability to specify type fixed or
percent. Let's put percent. Let's put
five. Uh but before that, let's go and
create an order actually and see what
kind of uh shipping uh we have.
Okay, let's do this way. I will go to
promotions.
I will cancel my I will make this test
discount disabled.
Disabled. Save the changes.
Okay,
I have refreshed. No discount because we
do not have any promotion that is
matching our conditions. I have made it
inactive. Okay, I will continue.
Yes, the order was changed. Need to
start again.
Okay. And we have a shipping method uh
uh rate u
the the flat rate uh for the shipping
method is $10 US. Now let's uh prepare
a shipping discount.
So I will go and change this to
shipping. Within the shipping we are
specifying what kind of uh type. let it
be amount and let me make $5 US off if a
user is using some specific uh shipping
method. uh let's pick up flat rate but
you can have like several of them and
for some uh in this way you can promote
users to use some uh specific shipping
method right okay I will pick up flat
rate I will save the changes
okay I have shipping fixed amount $5 US
off when user is using flat rate now if
I refresh the page
uh
Let me
uh one second. Ah, I kept it uh
inactive. I would need to enable.
Okay, now it um matched the condition.
So we have uh in a check out we have a
shipping method. We have a shipping
method flat rate. And when we have this
shipping method, we are promoting u this
type of shipping uh method that's why we
are given a discount five uh percentage
uh five US dollars off and as usually
you can specify not amount value but
some
uh but some uh percent uh like five
20% of save changes.
Okay. Now we have this this discount but
calculated based on uh 20%.
Okay. Now imagine that uh I will
demonstrate how conditions uh uh are
working. Um so we can specify and
restrict this uh or any other actually
discount uh options uh promotion
actually for some specific website
customer and customer group but let's
use u more
u
interesting case is uh based on the
expression and within expression uh same
as we had for the price list uh
definition uh we are able to specify
some expression here. Let's say I would
like to
uh to give this discount only in case we
have uh a subtotal
I guess subtotals or subtotal uh value
need to check documentation but more
than uh 500.
Let me check my notes in a second.
What should be the
uh whether I write subtotal? Mhm.
Without value. I will demonstrate where
you can pick up those
examples for the expressions. Okay, I
will save the changes. Now I have a
restriction within an advanced
condition. The promotion should be
applied uh only when we have subtotal uh
500 uh US dollars. I will refresh the
page.
Now the
uh promotion is not matching the
condition. We have uh uh subtotal uh
less than 500. Promotion is not applied.
Let me add it.
I will add it. Return back to the
checkout.
Go through the same steps.
And now I have subtotal greater than
500. The promotion is applied and the
discount is calculated based on percent
type which is uh $2 US.
And again you can yeah the whole idea is
uh within a shipping uh discounts is to
give this discount depending on some
specific shipping method you would like
to promote.
Okay, within the schedules uh as usually
you are just trying to automate uh the
process uh uh when the promotions at
what period they should be applied and
for that you have activate and
deactivate uh time uh frames and uh you
can have a collection of that there is
no need u there is no like calculation
performed under the hood. So if you have
this schedules uh
nothing could be happened in a in a
background uh to decide whether
promotion is applied or not because this
is uh just fetched using a promotion
repository using this additional query
builder
uh filtration uh just picking up a
relation to the schedules uh collection
and uh specifying uh a condition of what
kind of promotion we would like to to
pick up depending on the schedule.
Activate uh active at and de deactivate
at uh properties.
Okay. And we have already used um a
promotion uh with specific condition to
apply uh based on expressions.
Yeah, with this we you you will have
this u the visibility the promotion
visible only for some u targeted
customer or customer groups or depending
on some uh
conditions uh advanced conditions like
subtotals or or any other and let's
actually check what kind of expressions
are accepted for promotions. So we can
rely on some uh financial attributes
like uh we were doing that subtotals you
may promote using some specific currency
for uh euro provide a discount while for
US dollars do not provide a discount. uh
promoting some specific uh payment
methods and some uh specific shipping
cost which is calculated some
geographical u attributes like depending
on a billing address that customer uh
specified in a checkout or shipping
method depending on a customer customer
user entities and so on. So quite
uh large list of uh possible uh options
to be taken into account for this u
expression.
Oh yeah. and the list of operators
when we were adding uh which items we
prefer to have
uh as a discount
uh items to discount. we were selecting
uh them either manually I've picked up
for the last one I guess this one or we
were using uh this u form to select by
some uh advanced filter then we that's
usually can excluded from those which
were picked up automatically exclude
some some items
let me close this part
and the last thing uh related to This
topic is uh about coupons. So right now
we were using uh the the promotion was
triggered based on the uh
the condition which was met. For
instance, subtotal
u unit uh of quantity was matching the
product was matching. Uh but let's uh
check how it can also work with the
coupons.
Uh okay. I will create uh not create. I
will refresh.
Uh for instance, I would like to to
apply this discount
uh not only when the conditions are met.
uh
this ones and
the one that are specified in a discount
al options but also uh by uh depended on
a uh coupons. I will save the changes.
Now we have like two limitations uh two
criterias that should be met conditions
plus having some coupon. I will refresh
the page.
Now we do see that promotion is not
applied because condition is met but uh
there is no uh coupon uh for this uh for
this promotion.
Uh how coupons could be generated? Uh
for that we have under marketing
promotions coupons and here we have like
a list of those promotions which already
exist in the system. uh we can uh create
uh coupons by uh importing the file. So
downloading a template and
uh generating line items for the uh for
the file and importing those all those
coupons. We can create a single uh
coupon
just specify one single coupon code to
which promotion it should be applied and
um uh whether it should be enabled or
not. Uh if you are drafting keep it uh
disabled. How many uh number of times it
could be applied per
uh usages per per the coupon and plus
per the customer user and the validity
of the coupon
uh some start and uh end state. Another
thing we can generate uh not uh single
add not single coupon but generate
multiple coupons and for that we have
this option. So let me pick up this test
discount. Let me uh make it enabled
generate use per coupons. Let's skip one
one no valid from no valid until uh
coupon uh quantity. Here I will specify
how many coupons I would like to have.
Let's say I would like to take have 10
coupons. Uh the length of the coupon
code which will be let it be. I can
specify either the coupon code should be
alpha numeric, numeric, alphabetic only.
Let's keep it this one. I can add some
prefix suffix.
And here are whether I should add uh
dashes uh or not. I will
generate. So once I generate a bunch of
uh coupon codes are generated, they are
active. They enabled and we have an
information about them. Okay. Now I will
pick up one of them.
I will go. So let me refresh. Still no
uh no discount. Now I will apply a
coupon. Apply.
And a coupon was applied. And we have uh
it listed here uh within a uh now we
have both conditions met. We have a uh
promotion conditions met plus we have a
coupon applied. That's why we have uh
discount listed here. Okay, let me go
through the checkout
and submit an order.
I have an order
and I have a discount
for the shipping based on the condition
plus applied coupon.
Okay, let's switch back. So coupons has
following uh properties like it should
have a unique code. It is always linked
to some promotion and I was specifying
uh shipping uh shipping promotion for
the coupons I was generated. It should
could be enabled to disabled and we can
specify how many times you would like to
we we are allowing to use this coupon uh
itself or per also per person which
means per customer user and some valid
period as well.
uh the generation we went through it.
How we can just add single generate
multiple or use import functionality to
import uh them uh import several
products using a file
and uh
uh so
I went through the checkout.
You have seen u discounts which were
applied in the shopping list. uh some of
them were applying only during a
checkout like this shipping uh discount
of shipping type. Additionally, we have
the ability to apply discounts from the
uh order view page and uh let me
demonstrate it actually here.
So whenever we have already an order
created
uh I have opened the back office uh and
especially the p the page related to
this uh order. So what I have like uh
the options of applying uh promotions
and discounts in a
in a back office. So I have this on an
order view page add special discount and
uh imagine I value this uh customer or
customer user so much and I would like
to provide him some special discount. So
let's I can use this one. So I will put
uh
a discount like 10 uh
I can use either fixed uh amount
discount or depending on the order
currency. So I will put 10 or let's put
11. Okay. And I have uh some description
for this uh
special discount. Okay, the discount is
applied is added. And by the way, here
we can see the promotions and discounts
which were applied. the the promotion uh
coupon code. U
we see the details uh of this uh
discount
and based on what conditions uh they
were matched. Plus I have added this
special discount u 11 uh US dollars
specifically to this uh uh to this
order. And you may see that uh the
totals were recalculated and u new value
is displayed here. So same if I go in a
storefront it is reflected in a
storefront for the end user as well. So
here is this special discount I've just
uh added for my uh for my customer user
I am working with or customer.
Okay, another case when order was
already created but uh user forgot to
apply a discount apply a coupon a coupon
code for that we have this add coupon
code and uh actually sales
representative can uh pick up uh some
existing uh some generated uh coupon
codes and applied it directly to the
order.
And uh one more thing uh special
discount.
Mhm.
Yeah, that's uh that what I just
demonstrated. So using this add coupon
code or add special uh discount. Yeah,
this is some kind of forced uh forced
additional discount.
Okay. And uh in system configuration we
have a couple of uh settings which uh
manages u
applying promotions and let's actually
check them quickly here.
Um this is not it sales and sales. So
first of all we can fully disable uh the
promotion engines at all and not use it.
We can specify uh what kind of coupon
codes we would like to generate either
case insensitive or or not. And we are
also able to uh fi to define the
strategy uh by which we are defining
what promotion to to apply either
combine all discounts. So imagine user
has order total discount shipping
discount. So both will be applied for
the
uh for the items that are user is
ordering or we can select and apply best
value discount. So the the highest uh
discount will be applied on the
and now we are finishing with the uh
promotions and discounts. So we went
through and checked how promotions could
be set up in the back office, how uh it
is reflected in a storefront and we
might find the differences uh so uh
between uh promotions and prices. So
prices uh those which were specified in
a price list they were visible uh
everywhere we are we were navigated
through the website uh in a product
listing page, product details page,
shopping list while uh promotions they
were applied only uh either during a in
a checkout they were visible those
discounted values or um in uh in a
checkout or when the order is created.
So this is difference number one and u
so here goes the the thing where when
you are deciding uh what in what cases
to
uh to use uh uh pricing or to use uh
some promotion. So uh if you have like
standard uh some default prices you will
use like pricing uh if you have some uh
discounts applicable for all products of
certain customer you may use uh like a
separate price list make a discount
there and uh yeah and user will see
those discounted prices immediately in a
storefront. On the other hand side uh if
you have like uh some uh unusual prices
some specific for specific uh scope of
products then then especially for
specific conditions then use uh
promotions for that purpose
and as usually think ahead either you
would like to
to include already discounts to some
original uh prices uh using some uh
generated price
We use separate promotions, this
promotion engine or you can usually u
also combine both approaches together.
And what we have here a couple of uh
references uh
for your uh for the customization
purposes u or actually for the
expression usage is also uh useful for
for the back office users. how to to set
up the promotions.
Yeah.
Yeah. It also explains the difference.
Um
and here is a bundle which is promotion
bundle which is actually responsible
that also describes uh how you can
introduce your custom discounts.
Not a complex thing.
There are clients which are adding or
partners which are adding uh
uh on top their own uh discount types.
Okay,
that's it uh for the section uh
promotion and discounts.
Uh let me switch back.
Uh before
I switch to the question and answers, I
will check whether we have an exercises.
Yes, we do have. I will also share it
with you via email.
So we have an exercises for creating
line item
line item promotion applying applying
some condition to it and verifying how
it works. uh uh from the storefront. So
the same as I did uh while describing
this topic.
Okay. So now let's switch to questions
and answers.
How many automatic discounts does the
platform support?
uh so there is no kind of limitations uh
uh uh of how many discounts it could
support I don't know whether you can
whether you are trying to like to break
the the system and introduce as much as
many as possible but it should work fine
with the big set of data the engine will
identify either a single uh best value
promotion or it will uh
match all possible discounts uh all
possible u promotions and provide all of
them for the for the user. Uh so
short short answer no limitations uh for
uh for discounts
for the number of discounts. Okay, the
next question, uh, can multiple coupons
be generated by a customer in a
checkout? Uh, not enter. Yes, sorry. Can
multiple coupons be entered by a
customer? No, only single, uh, coupon
can be entered by a customer. So, if I
go through the checkout and try to apply
several, it will uh,
it will notify me that the coupon was
already applied.
Can a single promotion rule or single
coupon linked to multiple promotion
apply uh shipping and uh an item
discount when the customer enters a
single code in a checkout? So remember a
coupon it is
it is tied or it is assigned to some
specific uh uh some specific
promotion. Uh that's why um you would
need to
uh
to use um specifically promotion uh
coupon uh related to the promotion you
already have in a checkout. Let me read
once again. Can a single promotion rule
apply?
No, no, no. If uh yeah single code is
applied for single promotion.
Yeah. So the idea was how do you get
like free shipping and a price discount
on the order at the same time. So it
sounds like the only way to do it is
with two separate promotions
and only through conditions not through
uh one code or or you can't do multiple
codes either.
Yes.
Okay. Multiple promotions. Yeah. And
they and especially using uh this uh
having this configuration combine all
discounts it should be enabled otherwise
you will have only best value discount
option.
But if you have um sorry maybe I was not
so clear uh multiple coupons uh if they
are related to different uh to different
promotions uh you should be able to
apply different uh multiple promotions
uh during a checkout. Sorry, not
promotions, sorry, multiple coupons. Uh
so quick uh demonstration
uh I was thinking that you were talking
about the same promotion uh the same
coupon but apply for different uh for
different promotions. Uh so if we have
um
I was asking both questions so maybe I
wasn't clear. I should have split it up.
Sorry.
Okay. So let's pick quickly. Okay.
I have this one and create promotion
for the total.
Oops.
Okay, so I have two promotions test
discount which is for shipping and water
total. Uh let me quickly
um
generate coupons
uh for
order total enabled
um
generate five
and generate.
Okay,
now let me switch back to the shopping
list.
create order.
Sorry.
Uh
ah yeah, that's right. So I have two
promotions. Um I was checking why this
one was not applied. Let me add it. And
just to verify that it works without
coupons, conditions only.
Okay,
that's right. So I have promotion right
now. It works without coupons. Let me It
works only based on conditions.
Conditions are matching. We have this
discount. Okay. Now let me switch back
and add it and add limitation to have a
coupons as well. I will save the
changes. Okay, I will refresh. I should
have no
uh no discount. I will create an order.
I will continue.
I will specify flight rate for which I
should have a discount. I have subtotal
greater than 500. I will continue and I
will apply a coupon.
Okay. So first coupon I will apply for
shipping.
Apply.
So it was applied and we have like a
shipping discount. Now I will apply
additional coupon which is for another
promotion I have. And this is this one.
Enter apply.
Okay. So I have applied both uh coupons
uh but they are just uh separated
between two different assigned to two
different promotions. We have discount
for the order total and shipping
discount as well. So we can apply
multiple uh coupons by it. They should
be like separated between different uh
promotions.
Okay.
Are there any other questions related to
the topics we went uh through today?
And just a reminder, we went through
master catalog and web catalog, checked
the difference and check how they could
be configured, especially content for
the web catalog nodes. We went through
pricing engine. How uh price lists are
generated
using rules using different conditions.
Um how fallback uh strategy works and
uh different uh price strategies uh
works u when we have different prices
assigned on different levels. And at the
final end we've checked uh how promotion
engine works. U especially having some
discounts providing some discounts for
the end user.
Okay. So what I see no questions. So
from my part I will share with you
slides uh which we went through uh today
plus exercises uh which we recommend to
pass and uh tomorrow let's meet for the
topics uh we have inventory
taxes shopping list requests for quotes
and quotes and u going through the
checkout and actually configuring u some
checkout out uh uh
uh check out options and having an
orders and checking what kind of uh
entity it is how it looks like. Though
partially we went through this uh things
uh uh during uh today list but we will
dig into details uh tomorrow on day
three.
Uh so let's meet tomorrow.
Uh thank you so much for being acting
for asking questions. Yeah, I appreciate
that that there is some kind of
interaction uh with us and yeah
see you tomorrow.
Okay. Excellent. Bye.
Thank you. Bye. See you. Byebye.